

HOP
Hop, v. t.

Defn: To impregnate with hops. Mortimer.

HOP
Hop, v. i.

Defn: To gather hops. [Perhaps only in the form Hopping, vb. n.]

HOPBINE; HOPBIND
Hop"bine`, Hop"bind`, n.

Defn: The climbing stem of the hop. Blackstone.

HOPE
Hope, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. hop a small bay or inlet.]

1. A sloping plain between mountain ridges. [Obs.]

2. A small bay; an inlet; a haven. [Scot.] Jamieson.

HOPE
Hope, n. Etym: [AS., akin to D. hoop, hope, Sw. hopp, Dan. haab, MHG.
hoffe. Hope in forlorn hope is different word. See Forlorn hope,
under Forlorn.]

1. A desire of some good, accompanied with an expectation of
obtaining it, or a belief that it is obtainable; an expectation of
something which is thought to be desirable; confidence; pleasing
expectancy.
The hypocrite's hope shall perish. Job vii. 13.
He wished, but not with hope. Milton.
New thoughts of God, new hopes of Heaven. Keble.

2. One who, or that which, gives hope, furnishes ground of
expectation, or promises desired good.
The Lord will be the hope of his people. Joel iii. 16.
A young gentleman of great hopes, whose love of learning was highly
commendable. Macaulay.

3. That which is hoped for; an object of hope.
Lavina is thine elder brother's hope. Shak.

HOPE
Hope, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Hoped; p. pr. & vb. n. Hoping.] Etym: [AS.
hopian; akin to D. hopen, Sw. hopp, Dan. haabe, G. hoffen. See 2nd
Hope.]

1. To entertain or indulge hope; to cherish a desire of good, or of
something welcome, with expectation of obtaining it or belief that it
is obtainable; to expect; -- usually followed by for. "Hope for good
success." Jer. Taylor.
But I will hope continually. Ps. lxxi. 14.

2. To place confidence; to trust with confident expectation of good;
-- usually followed by in. "I hope in thy word." Ps. cxix. 81.
Why art thou cast down, O my soul and why art thou disquieted within
me Hope thou in God. Ps. xlii. 11.

HOPE
Hope, v. t.

1. To desire with expectation or with belief in the possibility or
prospect of obtaining; to look forward to as a thing desirable, with
the expectation of obtaining it; to cherish hopes of.
We hope no other from your majesty. Shak.
[Charity] hopeth all things. 1 Cor. xiii. 7.

2. To expect; to fear. [Obs.] "I hope he will be dead." Chaucer.

Note: Hope is often used colloquially regarding uncertainties, with
no reference to the future. "I hope she takes me to be flesh and
blood." Mrs. Centlivre.

HOPEFUL
Hope"ful, a.

1. Full of hope, or agreeable expectation; inclined to hope;
expectant.
Men of their own natural inclination hopeful and strongly conceited.
Hooker.

2. Having qualities which excite hope; affording promise of good or
of success; as, a hopeful youth; a hopeful prospect. "Hopeful
scholars." Addison.
 -- Hope"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Hope"ful*ness, n.

HOPEITE
Hope"ite, n. Etym: [Named after Professor Hope, of Edinburgh.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous phosphate of zinc in transparent prismatic crystals.

HOPELESS
Hope"less, a.

1. Destitute of hope; having no expectation of good; despairing.
I am a woman, friendless, hopeless. Shak.

2. Giving no ground of hope; promising nothing desirable; desperate;
as, a hopeless cause.
The hopelessword of "never to return" Breathe I against thee, upon
pain of life. Shak.

3. Unhoped for; despaired of. [Obs.] Marston.
 -- Hope"less*ly, adv.
 -- Hope"less*ness, n.

HOPER
Hop"er, n.

Defn: One who hopes. Swift.

HOPINGLY
Hop"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a hopeful manner. Hammond.

HOPLITE
Hop"lite, n. Etym: [Gr. hoplite.] (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A heavy-armed infantry soldier. Milford.

HOP-O'-MY-THUMB; HOP-THUMB
Hop"-o'-my-thumb", Hop"-thumb", n.

Defn: A very diminutive person. [Colloq.] liwell.

HOPPED
Hopped, p. a.

Defn: Impregnated with hops.

HOPPER
Hop"per, n. Etym: [See 1st Hop.]

1. One who, or that which, hops.

2. A chute, box, or receptacle, usually funnel-shaped with an opening
at the lower part, for delivering or feeding any material, as to a
machine; as, the wooden box with its trough through which grain
passes into a mill by joining or shaking, or a funnel through which
fuel passes into a furnace, or coal, etc., into a car.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: See Grasshopper, 2.

4. pl.

Defn: A game. See Hopscotch. Johnson.

5. (Zoöl.)
(a) See Grasshopper, and Frog hopper, Grape hopper, Leaf hopper, Tree
hopper, under Frog, Grape, Leaf, and Tree.
(b) The larva of a cheese fly.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel for carrying waste, garbage, etc., out to sea, so
constructed as to discharge its load by a mechanical contrivance; --
called also dumping scow. Bell and hopper (Metal.), the apparatus at
the top of a blast furnace, through which the charge is introduced,
while the gases are retained.
 -- Hopper boy, a rake in a mill, moving in a circle to spread meal
for drying, and to draw it over an opening in the floor, through
which it falls.
 -- Hopper closet, a water-closet, without a movable pan, in which
the receptacle is a funnel standing on a draintrap.
 -- Hopper cock, a faucet or valve for flushing the hopper of a
water-closet.

HOPPERDOZER
Hop"per*doz`er, n.  [Hopper (as in grasshopper) + doze or dose;
because conceived as putting insects to sleep or as dosing them with
poison.] (Agric.)

Defn: An appliance for the destruction of insects, consisting of a
shallow iron box, containing kerosene or coated with tar or other
sticky substance, which may be mounted on wheels.

HOPPERINGS
Hop"per*ings, n. (Gold Washing)

Defn: Gravel retaining in the hopper of a cradle.

HOPPESTERE
Hop`pes*tere", a.

Defn: An unexplained epithet used by Chaucer in reference to ships.
By some it is defined as "dancing (on the wave)"; by others as
"opposing," "warlike." T. R. Lounsbury.

HOPPET
Hop"pet, n.

1. A hand basket; also, a dish used by miners for measuring ore.
[Prov. Eng.]

2. An infant in arms. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

HOPPING
Hop"ping, n.

Defn: The act of one who, or that which, hops; a jumping, frisking,
or dancing. Hopping Dick (Zoöl.), a thrush of Jamaica (Merula
leucogenys), resembling the English blackbird in its familiar
manners, agreeable song, and dark plumage.

HOPPING
Hop"ping, n. Etym: [See 3rd Hop.]

Defn: A gathering of hops.

HOPPLE
Hop"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hoppled; p. pr. & vb. n. Hoppling.]
Etym: [From Hop; cf. Hobble.]

1. To impede by a hopple; to tie the feet of (a horse or a cow)
loosely together; to hamper; to hobble; as, to hopple an unruly or
straying horse.

2. Fig.: To entangle; to hamper. Dr. H. More.

HOPPLE
Hop"ple, n.

Defn: A fetter for horses, or cattle, when turned out to graze; --
chiefly used in the plural.

HOPPLEBUSH
Hop"ple*bush`, n.

Defn: Same as Hobblebush.

HOPPO
Hop"po, n.
(a) A collector of customs, as at Canton; an overseer of commerce.
(b) A tribunal or commission having charge of the revenue derived
from trade and navigation. [China] Hoppo men, Chinese customhouse
officers.

HOPSCOTCH
Hop"scotch`, n.

Defn: A child's game, in which a player, hopping on one foot, drives
a stone from one compartment to another of a figure traced or
scotched on the ground; -- called also hoppers.

HOP-THUMB
Hop"-thumb`, n.

Defn: See Hop-o'-my-thumb.

HOPYARD
Hop"yard`, n.

Defn: A field where hops are raised.

HORAL
Ho"ral, a. Etym: [L. horalis, fr. hora hour. See Hour.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an hour, or to hours. Prior.

HORALY
Ho"ra*ly, adv.

Defn: Hourly. [Obs.]

HORARY
Ho"ra*ry, a. Etym: [LL. horarius, fr. L. hora hour: cf. F. horaire.
See Hour.]

1. Of or pertaining to an hour; noting the hours. Spectator.

2. Occurring once an hour; continuing an hour; hourly; ephemeral.
Horary, or soon decaying, fruits of summer. Sir T. Browne.
Horary circles. See Circles.

HORATIAN
Ho*ra"tian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Horace, the Latin poet, or resembling his
style.

HORDE
Horde, n. Etym: [F. horde (cf. G. horde), fr. Turk. ord, ordi, camp;
of Tartar origin.]

Defn: A wandering troop or gang; especially, a clan or tribe of a
nomadic people migrating from place to place for the sake of
pasturage, plunder, etc.; a predatory multitude. Thomson.

HORDEIC
Hor*de"ic, a. Etym: [L. hordeum barley.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, barley; as, hordeic acid, an
acid identical or isomeric with lauric acid.

HORDEIN
Hor"de*in, n. Etym: [L. hordeum barley.] (Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar starchy matter contained in barley. It is complex
mixture. [R.]

HORDEOLUM
Hor*de"o*lum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. hordeolus, dim. of hordeum
barley.] (Med.)

Defn: A small tumor upon the eyelid, resembling a grain of barley; a
sty.

HORDOCK
Hor"dock`, n.

Defn: An unidentified plant mentioned by Shakespeare, perhaps
equivalent to burdock.

HORE
Hore, a.

Defn: Hoar. [Obs.] Chaucer.

HOREHOUND
Hore"hound`, n. Etym: [OE. horehune, AS. harhune; har hoar, gray +
hune horehound; cf. L. cunila a species of organum, GR. kn to smell.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Marrubium (M. vulgare), which has a bitter
taste, and is a weak tonic, used as a household remedy for colds,
coughing, etc. [Written also hoarhound.] Fetid horehound, or Black
horehound, a disagreeable plant resembling horehound (Ballota nigra).
 -- Water horehound, a species of the genus Lycopus, resembling mint,
but not aromatic.

HORIZON
Ho*ri"zon, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. horizon, fr. Gr.

1. The circle which bounds that part of the earth's surface visible
to a spectator from a given point; the apparent junction of the earth
and sky.
And when the morning sun shall raise his car Above the border of this
horizon. Shak.
All the horizon round Invested with bright rays. Milton.

2. (Astron.)
(a) A plane passing through the eye of the spectator and at right
angles to the vertical at a given place; a plane tangent to the
earth's surface at that place; called distinctively the sensible
horizon.
(b) A plane parallel to the sensible horizon of a place, and passing
through the earth's center; -- called also rational or celestial
horizon.
(c) (Naut.) The unbroken line separating sky and water, as seen by an
eye at a given elevation, no land being visible.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: The epoch or time during which a deposit was made.
The strata all over the earth, which were formed at the same time,
are said to belong to the same geological horizon. Le Conte.

4. (Painting)

Defn: The chief horizontal line in a picture of any sort, which
determines in the picture the height of the eye of the spectator; in
an extended landscape, the representation of the natural horizon
corresponds with this line. Apparent horizon. See under Apparent.
 -- Artificial horizon, a level mirror, as the surface of mercury in
a shallow vessel, or a plane reflector adjusted to the true level
artificially; -- used chiefly with the sextant for observing the
double altitude of a celestial body.
 -- Celestial horizon. (Astron.) See def. 2, above.
 -- Dip of the horizon (Astron.), the vertical angle between the
sensible horizon and a line to the visible horizon, the latter always
being below the former.
 -- Rational horizon, and Sensible horizon. (Astron.) See def. 2,
above.
 -- Visible horizon. See definitions 1 and 2, above.

HORIZONTAL
Hor`i*zon"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. horizontal.]

1. Pertaining to, or near, the horizon. "Horizontal misty air."
Milton.

2. Parallel to the horizon; on a level; as, a horizontalline or
surface.

3. Measured or contained in a plane of the horizon; as, horizontal
distance. Horizontal drill, a drilling machine having a horizontal
drill spindle.
 -- Horizontal engine, one the piston of which works horizontally.
 -- Horizontal fire (Mil.), the fire of ordnance and small arms at
point-blank range or at low angles of elevation.
 -- Horizontal force (Physics), the horizontal component of the
earth's magnetic force.
 -- Horizontal line (Descriptive Geometry & Drawing), a constructive
line, either drawn or imagined, which passes through the point of
sight, and is the chief line in the projection upon which all
verticals are fixed, and upon which all vanishing points are found.
 -- Horizontal parallax. See under Parallax.
 -- Horizontal plane (Descriptive Geometry), a plane parallel to the
horizon, upon which it is assumed that objects are projected. See
Projection. It is upon the horizontal plane that the ground plan of
the buildings is supposed to be drawn.
 -- Horizontal projection, a projection made on a plane parallel to
the horizon.
 -- Horizontal range (Gunnery), the distance in a horizontal plane to
which a gun will throw a projectile.
 -- Horizontal water wheel, a water wheel in which the axis is
vertical, the buckets or floats revolving in a horizontal plane, as
in most turbines.

HORIZONTALITY
Hor`i*zon*tal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. horizontalité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being horizontal. Kirwan.

HORIZONTALLY
Hor`i*zon"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a horizontal direction or position; on a level; as, moving
horizontally.

HORMOGONIUM
Hor`mo*go*ni"um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A chain of small cells in certain algæ, by which the plant is
propogated.

HORMONE
Hor"mone (hôr"mon), n. [From Gr. "orma`ein to excite.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: A chemical substance formed in one organ and carried in the
circulation to another organ on which it exerts a stimulating effect;
thus, according to Starling, the gastric glands are stimulated by a
hormone from the pyloric mucous membrane.

HORN
Horn, n. Etym: [AS. horn; akin to D. horen, hoorn, G., Icel., Sw., &
Dan. horn, Goth. haúrn, W., Gael., & Ir. corn, L. cornu, Gr. cheer,
cranium, cerebral; cf. Skr. çiras head. Cf. Carat, Corn on the foot,
Cornea, Corner, Cornet, Cornucopia, Hart.]

1. A hard, projecting, and usually pointed organ, growing upon the
heads of certain animals, esp. of the ruminants, as cattle, goats,
and the like. The hollow horns of the Ox family consist externally of
true horn, and are never shed.

2. The antler of a deer, which is of bone throughout, and annually
shed and renewed.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any natural projection or excrescence from an animal,
resembling or thought to resemble a horn in substance or form; esp.:
(a) A projection from the beak of a bird, as in the hornbill. (b) A
tuft of feathers on the head of a bird, as in the horned owl. (c) A
hornlike projection from the head or thorax of an insect, or the head
of a reptile, or fish. (d) A sharp spine in front of the fins of a
fish, as in the horned pout.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: An incurved, tapering and pointed appendage found in the
flowers of the milkweed (Asclepias).

5. Something made of a horn, or in resemblance of a horn; as:
(a) A wind instrument of music; originally, one made of a horn (of an
ox or a ram); now applied to various elaborately wrought instruments
of brass or other metal, resembling a horn in shape. "Wind his horn
under the castle wall." Spenser. See French horn, under French.
(b) A drinking cup, or beaker, as having been originally made of the
horns of cattle. "Horns of mead and ale." Mason.
(c) The cornucopia, or horn of plenty. See Cornucopia. "Fruits and
flowers from Amalthæa's horn." Milton.
(d) A vessel made of a horn; esp., one designed for containing
powder; anciently, a small vessel for carrying liquids. "Samuel took
the hornof oil and anointed him [David]." 1 Sam. xvi. 13.
(e) The pointed beak of an anvil.
(f) The high pommel of a saddle; also, either of the projections on a
lady's saddle for supporting the leg.
(g) (Arch.) The Ionic volute.
(h) (Naut.) The outer end of a crosstree; also, one of the
projections forming the jaws of a gaff, boom, etc.
(i) (Carp.) A curved projection on the fore part of a plane.
(j) One of the projections at the four corners of the Jewish altar of
burnt offering. "Joab . . . caught hold on the horns of the altar." 1
Kings ii. 28.

6. One of the curved ends of a crescent; esp., an extremity or cusp
of the moon when crescent-shaped.
The moon Wears a wan circle round her blunted horns. Thomson.

7. (Mil.)

Defn: The curving extremity of the wing of an army or of a squadron
drawn up in a crescentlike form.
Sharpening in mooned horns Their phalanx. Milton.

8. The tough, fibrous material of which true horns are composed,
being, in the Ox family, chiefly albuminous, with some phosphate of
lime; also, any similar substance, as that which forms the hoof crust
of horses, sheep, and cattle; as, a spoon of horn.

9. (Script.)

Defn: A symbol of strength, power, glory, exaltation, or pride.
The Lord is . . . the horn of my salvation. Ps. xviii. 2.

10. An emblem of a cuckold; -- used chiefly in the plural. "Thicker
than a cuckold's horn." Shak. Horn block, the frame or pedestal in
which a railway car axle box slides up and down; -- also called horn
plate.
 -- Horn of a dilemma. See under Dilemma.
 -- Horn distemper, a disease of cattle, affecting the internal
substance of the horn.
 -- Horn drum, a wheel with long curved scoops, for raising water.
 -- Horn lead (Chem.), chloride of lead.
 -- Horn maker, a maker of cuckolds. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Horn mercury. (Min.) Same as Horn quicksilver (below).
 -- Horn poppy (Bot.), a plant allied to the poppy (Glaucium luteum),
found on the sandy shores of Great Britain and Virginia; -- called
also horned poppy. Gray.
 -- Horn pox (Med.), abortive smallpox with an eruption like that of
chicken pox.
 -- Horn quicksilver (Min.), native calomel, or bichloride of
mercury.
 -- Horn shell (Zoöl.), any long, sharp, spiral, gastropod shell, of
the genus Cerithium, and allied genera.
 -- Horn silver (Min.), cerargyrite.
 -- Horn slate, a gray, siliceous stone.
 -- To haul in one's horns, to withdraw some arrogant pretension.
[Colloq.] -- To raise, or lift, the horn (Script.), to exalt one's
self; to act arrogantly. "'Gainst them that raised thee dost thou
lift thy horn" Milton.
 -- To take a horn, to take a drink of intoxicating liquor. [Low]

HORN
Horn, v. t.

1. To furnish with horns; to give the shape of a horn to.

2. To cause to wear horns; to cuckold. [Obs.] Shak.

HORNBEAK
Horn"beak`, n.

Defn: A fish. See Hornfish.

HORNBEAM
Horn"beam`, n. Etym: [See Beam.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree of the genus Carpinus (C. Americana), having a smooth
gray bark and a ridged trunk, the wood being white and very hard. It
is common along the banks of streams in the United States, and is
also called ironwood. The English hornbeam is C. Betulus. The
American is called also blue beech and water beech. Hop hornbeam.
(Bot.) See under Hop.

HORNBILL
Horn"bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the family Bucerotidæ, of which about sixty species
are known, belonging to numerous genera. They inhabit the tropical
parts of Asia, Africa, and the East Indies, and are remarkable for
having a more or less horn-like protuberance, which is usually large
and hollow and is situated on the upper side of the beak. The size of
the hornbill varies from that of a pigeon to that of a raven, or even
larger. They feed chiefly upon fruit, but some species eat dead
animals.

HORNBLENDE
Horn"blende`, n. Etym: [G., fr. horn horn + blende blende.] (Min.)

Defn: The common black, or dark green or brown, variety of amphibole.
(See Amphibole.) It belongs to the aluminous division of the species,
and is also characterized by its containing considerable iron. Also
used as a general term to include the whole species. Hornblende
schist (Geol.), a hornblende rock of schistose structure.

HORNBLENDIC
Horn*blend"ic, a.

Defn: Composed largely of hornblende; resembling or relating to
hornblende.

HORNBLOWER
Horn"blow`er, n. Etym: [AS. hornblawere.]

Defn: One who, or that which, blows a horn.

HORNBOOK
Horn"book`, n.

1. The first book for children, or that from which in former times
they learned their letters and rudiments; -- so called because a
sheet of horn covered the small, thin board of oak, or the slip of
paper, on which the alphabet, digits, and often the Lord's Prayer,
were written or printed; a primer. "He teaches boys the hornbook."
Shak.

2. A book containing the rudiments of any science or branch of
knowledge; a manual; a handbook.

HORNBUG
Horn"bug`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large nocturnal beetle of the genus Lucanus (as L. capreolus,
and L. dama), having long, curved upper jaws, resembling a sickle.
The grubs are found in the trunks of old trees.

HORNED
Horned, a.

Defn: Furnished with a horn or horns; furnished with a hornlike
process or appendage; as, horned cattle; having some part shaped like
a horn.
The horned moon with one bright star Within the nether tip.
Coleridge.
Horned bee (Zoöl.), a British wild bee (Osmia bicornis), having two
little horns on the head.
 -- Horned dace (Zoöl.), an American cyprinoid fish (Semotilus
corporialis) common in brooks and ponds; the common chub. See Illust.
of Chub.
 -- Horned frog (Zoöl.), a very large Brazilian frog (Ceratophrys
cornuta), having a pair of triangular horns arising from the eyelids.
 -- Horned grebe (Zoöl.), a species of grebe (Colymbus auritus), of
Arctic Europe and America, having two dense tufts of feathers on the
head.
 -- Horned horse (Zoöl.), the gnu.
 -- Horned lark (Zoöl.), the shore lark.
 -- Horned lizard (Zoöl.), the horned toad.
 -- Horned owl (Zoöl.), a large North American owl (Bubo
Virginianus), having a pair of elongated tufts of feathers on the
head. Several distinct varieties are known; as, the Arctic, Western,
dusky, and striped horned owls, differing in color, and inhabiting
different regions; -- called also great horned owl, horn owl, eagle
owl, and cat owl. Sometimes also applied to the long-eared owl. See
Eared owl, under Eared.
 -- Horned poppy. (Bot.) See Horn poppy, under Horn.
 -- Horned pout (Zoöl.), an American fresh-water siluroid fish; the
bullpout.
 -- Horned rattler (Zoöl.), a species of rattlesnake (Crotalus
cerastes), inhabiting the dry, sandy plains, from California to
Mexico. It has a pair of triangular horns between the eyes; -- called
also sidewinder.
 -- Horned ray (Zoöl.), the sea devil.
 -- Horned screamer (Zoöl.), the kamichi.
 -- Horned snake (Zoöl.), the cerastes.
 -- Horned toad (Zoöl.), any lizard of the genus Phrynosoma, of which
nine or ten species are known. These lizards have several hornlike
spines on the head, and a broad, flat body, covered with spiny
scales. They inhabit the dry, sandy plains from California to Mexico
and Texas. Called also horned lizard.
 -- Horned viper. (Zoöl.) See Cerastes.

HORNEDNESS
Horn"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The condition of being horned.

HORNEL
Horn"el, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European sand eel. [Scot.]

HORNER
Horn"er, n.

1. One who works or deal in horn or horns. [R.] Grew.

2. One who winds or blows the horn. [Obs.] Sherwood.

3. One who horns or cuckolds. [Obs.] Massinger.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The British sand lance or sand eel (Ammodytes lanceolatus).

HORNET
Hor"net, n. Etym: [AS. hyrnet; akin to OHG. hornaz, hornuz, G.
horniss; perh. akin to E. horn, and named from the sound it makes as
if blowing the horn; but more prob. akin to D. horzel, Lith.
szirszone, L. crabo.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, strong wasp. The European species (Vespa crabro) is of
a dark brown and yellow color. It is very pugnacious, and its sting
is very severe. Its nest is constructed of a paperlike material, and
the layers of comb are hung together by columns. The American white-
faced hornet (V. maculata) is larger and has similar habits. Hornet
fly (Zoöl.), any dipterous insect of the genus Asilus, and allied
genera, of which there are numerous species. They are large and
fierce flies which capture bees and other insects, often larger than
themselves, and suck their blood. Called also hawk fly, robber fly.
 -- To stir up a hornet's nest, to provoke the attack of a swarm of
spiteful enemies or spirited critics. [Colloq.]

HORNFISH
Horn"fish`, n. Etym: [AS. hornfisc.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The garfish or sea needle.

HORNFOOT
Horn"foot`, a.

Defn: Having hoofs; hoofed.

HORNIFY
Horn"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [Horn + -fy.]

Defn: To horn; to cuckold. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

HORNING
Horn"ing, n.

Defn: Appearance of the moon when increasing, or in the form of a
crescent. J. Gregory. Letters of horning (Scots Law), the process or
authority by which a person, directed by the decree of a court of
justice to pay or perform anything, is ordered to comply therewith.
Mozley & W.

HORNISH
Horn"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat like horn; hard.

HORNITO
Hor*ni"to, n. Etym: [A dim. fr. Sp. horno oven, L. furnus. See
Furnace.] (Geol.)

Defn: A low, oven-shaped mound, common in volcanic regions, and
emitting smoke and vapors from its sides and summit. Humboldt.

HORNLESS
Horn"less, a.

Defn: Having no horn.

HORN-MAD
Horn"-mad`, a.

Defn: Quite mad; -- raving crazy.
Did I tell you about Mr. Garrick, that the town are horn-mad after
Gray.

HORNOTINE
Hor"no*tine, n. Etym: [L. hornotinus of this year.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A yearling; a bird of the year.

HORNOWL
Horn"owl`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Horned Owl.

HORNPIKE
Horn"pike`, n.

Defn: The garfish. [Prov. Eng.]

HORNPIPE
Horn"pipe`, n. (Mus.)
(a) An instrument of music formerly popular in Wales, consisting of a
wooden pipe, with holes at intervals. It was so called because the
bell at the open end was sometimes made of horn.
(b) A lively tune played on a hornpipe, for dancing; a tune adapted
for such playing.
Many a hornpipe he tuned to his Phyllis. Sir W. Raleigh.
(c) A dance performed, usually by one person, to such a tune, and
popular among sailors.

HORNPOUT
Horn"pout`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Horned pout, under Horned.

HORNSNAKE
Horn"snake`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A harmless snake (Farancia abacura), found in the Southern
United States. The color is bluish black above, red below.

HORNSTONE
Horn"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: A siliceous stone, a variety of quartz, closely resembling
flint, but more brittle; -- called also chert.

HORNTAIL
Horn"tail`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of family (Uroceridæ) of large hyminopterous insects,
allied to the sawflies. The larvæ bore in the wood of trees. So
called from the long, stout ovipositors of the females.

HORNWORK
Horn"work`, n. (Fort.)

Defn: An outwork composed of two demibastions joined by a curtain. It
is connected with the works in rear by long wings.

HORNWORT
Horn"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic plant (Ceratophyllum), with finely divided leaves.

HORNWRACK
Horn"wrack`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bryozoan of the genus Flustra.

HORNY
Horn"y, a. [Compar. Hornier; superl. Horniest.]

1. Having horns or hornlike projections. Gay.

2. Composed or made of horn, or of a substance resembling horn; of
the nature of horn. "The horny . . . coat of the eye." Ray.

3. Hard; callous. "His horny fist." Dryden.

HORNY-HANDED
Horn"y-hand`ed, a.

Defn: Having the hands horny and callous from labor.

HORNYHEAD
Horn"y*head`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any North American river chub of the genus Hybopsis, esp. H.
biguttatus.

HOROGRAPHY
Ho*rog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. F. horographie.]

1. An account of the hours. Chaucer.

2. The art of constructing instruments for making the hours, as
clocks, watches, and dials.

HOROLOGE
Hor"o*loge, n. Etym: [OE. horologe, orloge, timepiece, OF. horloge,
orloge, oriloge, F. horloge, L. horologium, fr. Gr. Hour, and Logic.]

1. A servant who called out the hours. [Obs.]

2. An instrument indicating the time of day; a timepiece of any kind;
a watch, clock, or dial. Shak.

HOROLOGER
Ho*rol"o*ger, n.

Defn: A maker or vender of clocks and watches; one skilled in
horology.

HOROLOGICAL
Hor`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. horologicus, Gr.

Defn: Relating to a horologe, or to horology.

HOROLOGIOGRAPHER
Hor`o*lo`gi*og"ra*pher, n. Etym: [See Horologiography.]

Defn: A maker of clocks, watches, or dials.

HOROLOGIOGRAPHIC
Hor`o*lo`gi*o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to horologiography. Chambers.

HOROLOGIOGRAPHY
Hor`o*lo`gi*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

1. An account of instruments that show the hour.

2. The art of constructing clocks or dials; horography.

HOROLOGIST
Ho*rol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in horology.

HOROLOGY
Ho*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [See Horologe.]

Defn: The science of measuring time, or the principles and art of
constructing instruments for measuring and indicating portions of
time, as clocks, watches, dials, etc.

HOROMETER
Ho*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring time.

HOROMETRICAL
Hor`o*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Belonging to horometry.

HOROMETRY
Ho*rom"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. horométrie. See Horometer.]

Defn: The art, practice, or method of measuring time by hours and
subordinate divisions. "The horometry of antiquity." Sir T. Browne.

HOROPTER
Ho*rop"ter, n. Etym: [Gr. (Opt.)

Defn: The line or surface in which are situated all the points which
are seen single while the point of sight, or the adjustment of the
eyes, remains unchanged.
The sum of all the points which are seen single, while the point of
sight remains unchanged, is called the horopter. J. Le Conte.

HOROPTERIC
Hor`op*ter"ic, a. (Opt.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the horopter.

HOROSCOPE
Hor"o*scope, n. Etym: [F. horoscope, L. horoscopus, fr. Gr. n., a
horoscope; Hour, and -scope.]

1. (Astrol.)
(a) The representation made of the aspect of the heavens at the
moment of a person's birth, by which the astrologer professed to
foretell the events of the person's life; especially, the sign of the
zodiac rising above the horizon at such a moment.
(b) The diagram or scheme of twelve houses or signs of the zodiac,
into which the whole circuit of the heavens was divided for the
purposes of such prediction of fortune.

2. The planisphere invented by Jean Paduanus.

3. A table showing the length of the days and nights at all places.
Heyse.

HOROSCOPER; HOROSCOPIST
Hor"o*sco`per, Ho*ros"co*pist, n.

Defn: One versed in horoscopy; an astrologer.

HOROSCOPY
Ho*ros"co*py, n.

1. The art or practice of casting horoscopes, or observing the
disposition of the stars, with a view to prediction events.

2. Aspect of the stars at the time of a person's birth.

HORRENDOUS
Hor*ren"dous, a. Etym: [L. horrendus.]

Defn: Fearful; frightful. [Obs.] I. Watts.

HORRENT
Hor"rent, a. Etym: [L. horrens, p.pr. of horrere to bristle. See
Horror.]

Defn: Standing erect, as bristles; covered with bristling points;
bristled; bristling.
Rough and horrent with figures in strong relief. De Quincey.
With bright emblazonry and horrent arms. Milton.

HORRIBLE
Hor"ri*ble, a. Etym: [OE. horrible, orrible, OF. horrible, orrible,
F. horrible, fr. L. horribilis, fr. horrere. See Horror.]

Defn: Exciting, or tending to excite, horror or fear; dreadful;
terrible; shocking; hideous; as, a horrible sight; a horrible story;
a horrible murder.
A dungeon horrible on all sides round. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Dreadful; frightful; fearful; terrible; awful; terrific;
shocking; hideous; horrid.

HORRIBLENESS
Hor"ri*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being horrible; dreadfulness;
hideousness.
The horribleness of the mischief. Sir P. Sidney.

HORRIBLY
Hor"ri*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to excite horror; dreadfully; terribly.

HORRID
Hor"rid, a. Etym: [L. horridus. See Horror, and cf. Ordure.]

1. Rough; rugged; bristling. [Archaic]
Horrid with fern, and intricate with thorn. Dryden.

2. Fitted to excite horror; dreadful; hideous; shocking; hence, very
offensive.
Not in the legions Of horrid hell. Shak.
The horrid things they say. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Frightful; hideous; alarming; shocking; dreadful; awful;
terrific; horrible; abominable.

HORRIDLY
Hor"rid*ly, adv.

Defn: In a horrid manner. Shak.

HORRIDNESS
Hor"rid*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being horrid.

HORRIFIC
Hor*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. horrifieus; horrere to be horrible + -ficare
(in comp.) to make: cf. F. horrifique. See Horror, -fy.]

Defn: Causing horror; frightful.
Let . . . nothing ghastly or horrific be supposed. I. Taylor.

HORRIFICATION
Hor`ri*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: That which causes horror. [R.] Miss Edgeworth.

HORRIFY
Hor"ri*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Horrified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Horrifying.] Etym: [L. horrificare. See Horrific.]

Defn: To cause to feel horror; to strike or impress with horror; as,
the sight horrified the beholders. E. Irving.

HORRIPILATION
Hor*rip`i*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. horripilatio, fr. horripilare to
bristle; horrere to bristle + pilus the hair: cf. F. horripilation.]
(Med.)

Defn: A real or fancied bristling of the hair of the head or body,
resulting from disease, terror, chilliness, etc.

HORRISONANT
Hor*ris"o*nant, a.

Defn: Horrisonous. [Obs.]

HORRISONOUS
Hor*ris"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. horrisonus; horrere to be horrible +
sonus a sound.]

Defn: Sounding dreadfully; uttering a terrible sound. [Obs.] Bailey.

HORROR
Hor"ror, n. Etym: [Formerly written horrour.] Etym: [L. horror, fr.
horrere to bristle, to shiver, to tremble with cold or dread, to be
dreadful or terrible; cf. Skr. h to bristle.]

1. A bristling up; a rising into roughness; tumultuous movement.
[Archaic]
Such fresh horror as you see driven through the wrinkled waves.
Chapman.

2. A shaking, shivering, or shuddering, as in the cold fit which
precedes a fever; in old medical writings, a chill of less severity
than a rigor, and more marked than an algor.

3. A painful emotion of fear, dread, and abhorrence; a shuddering
with terror and detestation; the feeling inspired by something
frightful and shocking.
How could this, in the sight of heaven, without horrors of conscience
be uttered Milton.

4. That which excites horror or dread, or is horrible; gloom;
dreariness.
Breathes a browner horror on the woods. Pope.
The horrors, delirium tremens. [Colloq.]

HORROR-STICKEN
Hor"ror-stick`en, a.

Defn: Struck with horror; horrified.
Blank and horror-stricken faces. C. Kingsley.

HORROR-STRUCK
Hor"ror-struck`, a.

Defn: Horror-stricken; horrified. M. Arnold.

HORS DE COMBAT
Hors` de com`bat". Etym: [F.]

Defn: Out of the combat; disabled from fighting.

HORS D'OEUVRE
Hors` d'ouvre"; pl. Hors d'ouveres (#). [F., lit., outside of work.]

1. Something unusual or extraordinary. [R.]

2.  A dish served as a relish, usually at the beginning of a meal.

HORSE
Horse, n. Etym: [AS. hors; akin to OS. hros, D. & OHG. ros, G. ross,
Icel. hross; and perh. to L. currere to run, E. course, current Cf.
Walrus.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially, the domestic
horse (E. caballus), which was domesticated in Egypt and Asia at a
very early period. It has six broad molars, on each side of each jaw,
with six incisors, and two canine teeth, both above and below. The
mares usually have the canine teeth rudimentary or wanting. The horse
differs from the true asses, in having a long, flowing mane, and the
tail bushy to the base. Unlike the asses it has callosities, or
chestnuts, on all its legs. The horse excels in strength, speed,
docility, courage, and nobleness of character, and is used for
drawing, carrying, bearing a rider, and like purposes.

Note: Many varieties, differing in form, size, color, gait, speed,
etc., are known, but all are believed to have been derived from the
same original species. It is supposed to have been a native of the
plains of Central Asia, but the wild species from which it was
derived is not certainly known. The feral horses of America are
domestic horses that have run wild; and it is probably true that most
of those of Asia have a similar origin. Some of the true wild Asiatic
horses do, however, approach the domestic horse in several
characteristics. Several species of fossil (Equus) are known from the
later Tertiary formations of Europe and America. The fossil species
of other genera of the family Equidæ are also often called horses, in
general sense.

2. The male of the genus horse, in distinction from the female or
male; usually, a castrated male.

3. Mounted soldiery; cavalry; -- used without the plural termination;
as, a regiment of horse; -- distinguished from foot.
The armies were appointed, consisting of twenty-five thousand horse
and foot. Bacon.

4. A frame with legs, used to support something; as, a clotheshorse,
a sawhorse, etc.

5. A frame of timber, shaped like a horse, on which soldiers were
made to ride for punishment.

6. Anything, actual or figurative, on which one rides as on a horse;
a hobby.

7. (Mining)

Defn: A mass of earthy matter, or rock of the same character as the
wall rock, occurring in the course of a vein, as of coal or ore;
hence, to take horse -- said of a vein -- is to divide into branches
for a distance.

8. (Naut.)
(a) See Footrope, a.
(b) A breastband for a leadsman.
(c) An iron bar for a sheet traveler to slide upon.
(d) A jackstay. W. C. Russell. Totten.

Note: Horse is much used adjectively and in composition to signify
of, or having to do with, a horse or horses, like a horse, etc.; as,
horse collar, horse dealer or horsehorsehoe, horse jockey; and hence,
often in the sense of strong, loud, coarse, etc.; as, horselaugh,
horse nettle or horse-nettle, horseplay, horse ant, etc. Black horse,
Blood horse, etc. See under Black, etc.
 -- Horse aloes, caballine aloes.
 -- Horse ant (Zoöl.), a large ant (Formica rufa); -- called also
horse emmet.
 -- Horse artillery, that portion of the artillery in which the
cannoneers are mounted, and which usually serves with the cavalry;
flying artillery.
 -- Horse balm (Bot.), a strong-scented labiate plant (Collinsonia
Canadensis), having large leaves and yellowish flowers.
 -- Horse bean (Bot.), a variety of the English or Windsor bean (Faba
vulgaris), grown for feeding horses.
 -- Horse boat, a boat for conveying horses and cattle, or a boat
propelled by horses.
 -- Horse bot. (Zoöl.) See Botfly, and Bots.
 -- Horse box, a railroad car for transporting valuable horses, as
hunters. [Eng.] -- Horse breaker or trainer, one employed in subduing
or training horses for use.
 -- Horse car. (a) A railroad car drawn by horses. See under Car. (b)
A car fitted for transporting horses.
 -- Horse cassia (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Cassia Javanica),
bearing long pods, which contain a black, catharic pulp, much used in
the East Indies as a horse medicine.
 -- Horse cloth, a cloth to cover a horse.
 -- Horse conch (Zoöl.), a large, spiral, marine shell of the genus
Triton. See Triton.
 -- Horse courser. (a) One that runs horses, or keeps horses for
racing. Johnson. (b) A dealer in horses. [Obs.] Wiseman.
 -- Horse crab (Zoöl.), the Limulus; -- called also horsefoot,
horsehoe crab, and king crab.
 -- Horse crevallé (Zoöl.), the cavally.
 -- Horse emmet (Zoöl.), the horse ant.
 -- Horse finch (Zoöl.), the chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] -- Horse gentian
(Bot.), fever root.
 -- Horse iron (Naut.), a large calking iron.
 -- Horse latitudes, a space in the North Atlantic famous for calms
and baffling winds, being between the westerly winds of higher
latitudes and the trade winds. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- Horse mackrel. (Zoöl.) (a) The common tunny (Orcynus thunnus),
found on the Atlantic coast of Europe and America, and in the
Mediterranean. (b) The bluefish (Pomatomus saltatrix). (c) The scad.
(d) The name is locally applied to various other fishes, as the
California hake, the black candlefish, the jurel, the bluefish, etc.
 -- Horse marine (Naut.), an awkward, lubbery person; one of a
mythical body of marine cavalry. [Slang] -- Horse mussel (Zoöl.), a
large, marine mussel (Modiola modiolus), found on the northern shores
of Europe and America.
 -- Horse nettle (Bot.), a coarse, prickly, American herb, the
Solanum Carolinense.
 -- Horse parsley. (Bot.) See Alexanders.
 -- Horse purslain (Bot.), a coarse fleshy weed of tropical America
(Trianthema monogymnum).
 -- Horse race, a race by horses; a match of horses in running or
trotting.
 -- Horse racing, the practice of racing with horses.
 -- Horse railroad, a railroad on which the cars are drawn by horses;
-- in England, and sometimes in the United States, called a tramway.
 -- Horse run (Civil Engin.), a device for drawing loaded
wheelbarrows up an inclined plane by horse power.
 -- Horse sense, strong common sense. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Horse
soldier, a cavalryman.
 -- Horse sponge (Zoöl.), a large, coarse, commercial sponge (Spongia
equina).
 -- Horse stinger (Zoöl.), a large dragon fly. [Prov. Eng.] -- Horse
sugar (Bot.), a shrub of the southern part of the United States
(Symplocos tinctoria), whose leaves are sweet, and good for fodder.
 -- Horse tick (Zoöl.), a winged, dipterous insect (Hippobosca
equina), which troubles horses by biting them, and sucking their
blood; -- called also horsefly, horse louse, and forest fly.
 -- Horse vetch (Bot.), a plant of the genus Hippocrepis (H. comosa),
cultivated for the beauty of its flowers; -- called also horsehoe
vetch, from the peculiar shape of its pods.
 -- Iron horse, a locomotive. [Colloq.] -- Salt horse, the sailor's
name for salt beef.
 -- To look a gift horse in the mouth, to examine the mouth of a
horse which has been received as a gift, in order to ascertain his
age; -- hence, to accept favors in a critical and thankless spirit.
Lowell.
 -- To take horse. (a) To set out on horseback. Macaulay. (b) To be
covered, as a mare. (c) See definition 7 (above).

HORSE
Horse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Horsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Horsing.] Etym:
[AS. horsion.]

1. To provide with a horse, or with horses; to mount on, or as on, a
horse. "Being better horsed, outrode me." Shak.

2. To sit astride of; to bestride. Shak.

3. To cover, as a mare; -- said of the male.

4. To take or carry on the back; as, the keeper, horsing a deer. S.
Butler.

5. To place on the back of another, or on a wooden horse, etc., to be
flogged; to subject to such punishment.

HORSE
Horse, v. i.

Defn: To get on horseback. [Obs.] Shelton.

HORSEBACK
Horse"back`, n.

1. The back of a horse.

2. An extended ridge of sand, gravel, and bowlders, in a half-
stratified condition. Agassiz. On horseback, on the back of a horse;
mounted or riding on a horse or horses; in the saddle.
The long journey was to be performed on horseback. Prescott.

HORSE-CHESTNUT
Horse`-chest"nut, n. (Bot.)
(a) The large nutlike seed of a species of Æsculus (Æ.
Hippocastanum), formerly ground, and fed to horses, whence the name.
(b) The tree itself, which was brought from Constantinople in the
beginning of the sixteenth century, and is now common in the
temperate zones of both hemispheres. The native American species are
called buckeyes.

HORSE-DRENCH
Horse"-drench`, n.

1. A dose of physic for a horse. Shak.

2. The appliance by which the dose is administred.

HORSEFISH
Horse"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The moonfish (Selene setipinnis).
(b) The sauger.

HORSEFLESH
Horse"flesh`, n.

1. The flesh of horses.
The Chinese eat horseflesh at this day. Bacon.

2. Horses, generally; the qualities of a horse; as, he is a judge of
horseflesh. [Colloq.] Horseflesh ore (Min.), a miner's name for
bornite, in allusion to its peculiar reddish color on fresh facture.

HORSEFLY
Horse"fly`, n.; pl. Horseflies (.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any dipterous fly of the family Tabanidæ, that stings horses,
and sucks their blood.

Note: Of these flies there are numerous species, both in Europe and
America. They have a large proboscis with four sharp lancets for
piercing the skin. Called also breeze fly. See Illust. under Diptera,
and Breeze fly.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The horse tick or forest fly (Hippobosca).

HORSEFOOT
Horse"foot`, n.; pl. Horsefeet.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The coltsfoot.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Limulus or horseshoe crab.

HORSE GUARDS
Horse" Guards`. (Mil.)

Defn: A body of cavalry so called; esp., a British regiment, called
the Royal Horse Guards, which furnishes guards of state for the
sovereign. The Horse Guards, a name given to the former headquarters
of the commander in chief of the British army, at Whitehall in
London.

HORSEHAIR
Horse"hair`, n.

Defn: A hair of a horse, especially one from the mane or tail; the
hairs of the mane or tail taken collectively; a fabric or tuft made
of such hairs. Horsehair worm (Zoöl.), the hair worm or gordius.

HORSEHEAD
Horse"head`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The silver moonfish (Selene vomer).

HORSEHIDE
Horse"hide`, n.

1. The hide of a horse.

2. Leather made of the hide of a horse.

HORSE-JOCKEY
Horse"-jock`ey, n.

1. A professional rider and trainer of race horses.

2. A trainer and dealer in horses.

HORSEKNOP
Horse"knop`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Knapweed.

HORSELAUGH
Horse"laugh`, n.

Defn: A loud, boisterous laugh; a guffaw. Pope.

HORSE-LEECH
Horse"-leech`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large blood-sucking leech (Hæmopsis vorax), of Europe and
Northern Africa. It attacks the lips and mouths of horses.

2. A farrier; a veterinary surgeon.

HORSE-LEECHERY
Horse"-leech`er*y, n.

Defn: The business of a farrier; especially, the art of curing the
diseases of horses.

HORSELESS
Horse"less, a.

Defn: Being without a horse; specif., not requiring a horse; -- said
of certain vehicles in which horse power has been replaced by
electricity, steam, etc.; as, a horseless carriage or truck.

HORSE-LITTER
Horse"-lit`ter, n.

Defn: A carriage hung on poles, and borne by and between two horses.
Milton.

HORSEMAN
Horse"man, n.; pl. Horsemen (.

1. A rider on horseback; one skilled in the management of horses; a
mounted man.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A mounted soldier; a cavalryman.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A land crab of the genus Ocypoda, living on the coast of Brazil
and the West Indies, noted for running very swiftly.
(b) A West Indian fish of the genus Eques, as the light-horseman (E.
lanceolatus).

HORSEMANSHIP
Horse"man*ship, n.

Defn: The act or art of riding, and of training and managing horses;
manege.

HORSEMINT
Horse"mint`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A coarse American plant of the Mint family (Monarda punctata).
(b) In England, the wild mint (Mentha sylvestris).

HORSENAIL
Horse"nail`, n.

Defn: A thin, pointed nail, with a heavy flaring head, for securing a
horsehoe to the hoof; a horsehoe nail.

HORSEPLAY
Horse"play`, n.

Defn: Rude, boisterous play.
Too much given to horseplay in his raillery. Dryden.

HORSEPOND
Horse"pond`, n.

Defn: A pond for watering horses.

HORSE POWER
Horse" pow`er

Defn: .

1. The power which a horse exerts.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A unit of power, used in stating the power required to drive
machinery, and in estimating the capabilities of animals or steam
engines and other prime movers for doing work. It is the power
required for the performance of work at the rate of 33,000 English
units of work per minute; hence, it is the power that must be exerted
in lifting 33,000 pounds at the rate of one foot per minute, or 550
pounds at the rate of one foot per second, or 55 pounds at the rate
of ten feet per second, etc.

Note: The power of a draught horse, of average strength, working
eight hours per day, is about four fifths of a standard horse power.
Brake horse power, the net effective power of a prime mover, as a
steam engine, water wheel, etc., in horse powers, as shown by a
friction brake. See Friction brake, under Friction.
 -- Indicated horse power, the power exerted in the cylinder of an
engine, stated in horse powers, estimated from the diameter and speed
of the piston, and the mean effective pressure upon it as shown by an
indicator. See Indicator.
 -- Nominal horse power (Steam Engine), a term still sometimes used
in England to express certain proportions of cylinder, but having no
value as a standard of measurement.

3. A machine worked by a horse, for driving other machinery; a horse
motor.

HORSE-RADISH
Horse"-rad`ish, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Nasturtium (N. Armoracia), allied to
scurvy grass, having a root of a pungent taste, much used, when
grated, as a condiment and in medicine. Gray. Horse-radish tree.
(Bot.) See Moringa.

HORSERAKE
Horse"rake`, n.

Defn: A rake drawn by a horse.

HORSESHOE
Horse"shoe`, n.

1. A shoe for horses, consisting of a narrow plate of iron in form
somewhat like the letter U, nailed to a horse's hoof.

2. Anything shaped like a horsehoe crab.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Limulus of horsehoe crab. Horsehoe head (Med.), an old name
for the condition of the skull in children, in which the sutures are
too open, the coronal suture presenting the form of a horsehoe.
Dunglison.
 -- Horsehoe magnet, an artificial magnet in the form of a horsehoe.
 -- Horsehoe nail. See Horsenail.
 -- Horsehoe nose (Zoöl.), a bat of the genus Rhinolophus, having a
nasal fold of skin shaped like a horsehoe.

HORSESHOEING
Horse"shoe`ing, n.

Defn: The act or employment of shoeing horses.

HORSESHOER
Horse"sho`er, n.

Defn: One who shoes horses.

HORSETAIL
Horse"tail`, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A leafless plant, with hollow and rushlike stems. It is of the
genus Equisetum, and is allied to the ferns. See Illust. of
Equisetum.

2. A Turkish standard, denoting rank.

Note: Commanders are distinguished by the number of horsetails
carried before them. Thus, the sultan has seven, the grand vizier
five, and the pashas three, two, or one. Shrubby horsetail. (Bot.)
See Joint-fir.

HORSEWEED
Horse"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A composite plant (Erigeron Canadensis), which is a common
weed.

HORSEWHIP
Horse"whip`, n.

Defn: A whip for horses.

HORSEWHIP
Horse"whip`, v. t.

Defn: To flog or chastise with a horsewhip.

HORSEWOMAN
Horse"wom`an, n.; pl. Horsewomen (.

Defn: A woman who rides on horseback.

HORSEWOOD
Horse"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian tree (Calliandra latifolia) with showy, crimson
blossoms.

HORSEWORM
Horse"worm`, n.

Defn: The larva of a botfly.

HORSINESS
Hors"i*ness, n.

1. The condition or quality of being a horse; that which pertains to
a horse. Tennyson.

2. Fondness for, or interest in, horses.

HORSLY
Hors"ly, a.

Defn: Horselike. [Obs.] Chaucer.

HORSY
Hors"y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing;
as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions.
[Colloq.]

HORTATION
Hor*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. hortatio, fr. hortari to incite, exhort,
fr. hori to urge.]

Defn: The act of exhorting, inciting, or giving advice; exhortation.
[R.]

HORTATIVE
Hor"ta*tive, a. Etym: [L. hortativus.]

Defn: Giving exhortation; advisory; exhortative. Bullokar.

HORTATIVE
Hor"ta*tive, n.

Defn: An exhortation. [Obs.]

HORTATORY
Hor"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. hortatorius.]

Defn: Giving exhortation or advise; encouraging; exhortatory;
inciting; as, a hortatory speech. Holland.

HORTENSIAL
Hor*ten"sial, a. Etym: [L. hortensius, hortensis, fr. hortus garden;
akin to E. yard an inclosure.]

Defn: Fit for a garden. [Obs.] Evelyn.

HORTICULTOR
Hor"ti*cul`tor, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. hortus garden + cultor a
cultivator, colere to cultivate.]

Defn: One who cultivates a garden.

HORTICULTURAL
Hor`ti*cul"tur*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. horticultural.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to horticulture, or the culture of gardens or
orchards.

HORTICULTURE
Hor"ti*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. hortus garden + cultura culture: cf. F.
horticulture. See Yard an inclosure, and Culture.]

Defn: The cultivation of a garden or orchard; the art of cultivating
gardens or orchards.

HORTICULTURIST
Hor`ti*cul"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who practices horticulture.

HORTULAN
Hor"tu*lan, a. Etym: [L. hortulanus; hortus garden.]

Defn: Belonging to a garden. [Obs.] Evelyn.

HORTUS SICCUS
Hor"tus sic"cus. Etym: [L., a dry garden.]

Defn: A collection of specimens of plants, dried and preserved, and
arranged systematically; an herbarium.

HORTYARD
Hort"yard, n.

Defn: An orchard. [Obs.]

HOSANNA
Ho*san"na, n.; pl. Hosannas. Etym: [Gr. hoshi'ah nnasave now, save,
we pray, hoshia' to save (Hiphil, a causative form, of yasha') + na,
a particle.]

Defn: A Hebrew exclamation of praise to the Lord, or an invocation of
blessings. "Hosanna to the Highest." Milton.
Hosanna to the Son of David. Matt. xxi. 9.

HOSE
Hose, n.; pl. Hose, formerly Hosen. Etym: [AS. hose; akin to D. hoos,
G. hose breeches, OHG. hosa, Icel. hosa stocking, gather, Dan. hose
stocking; cf. Russ. koshulia a fur jacket.]

1. Close-fitting trousers or breeches, as formerly worn, reaching to
the knee.
These men were bound in their coats, their hosen, and their hats, and
their other garments. Dan. iii. 21.
His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide For his shrunk shank.
Shak.

2. Covering for the feet and lower part of the legs; a stocking or
stockings.

3. A flexible pipe, made of leather, India rubber, or other material,
and used for conveying fluids, especially water, from a faucet,
hydrant, or fire engine. Hose carriage, cart, or truck, a wheeled
vehicle fitted for conveying hose for extinguishing fires.
 -- Hose company, a company of men appointed to bring and manage hose
in the extinguishing of fires. [U.S.] -- Hose coupling, coupling with
interlocking parts for uniting hose, end to end.
 -- Hose wrench, a spanner for turning hose couplings, to unite or
disconnect them.

HOSEN
Ho"sen, n. pl.

Defn: See Hose. [Archaic]

HOSIER
Ho"sier, n.

Defn: One who deals in hose or stocking, or in goods knit or woven
like hose.

HOSIERY
Ho"sier*y, n.

1. The business of a hosier.

2. Stockings, in general; goods knit or woven like hose.

HOSPICE
Hos"pice, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. hospitium hospitality, a place where
strangers are entertained, fr. hospes stranger, guest. See Host a
landlord.]

Defn: A convent or monastery which is also a place of refuge or
entertainment for travelers on some difficult road or pass, as in the
Alps; as, the Hospice of the Great St. Bernard.

HOSPITABLE
Hos"pi*ta*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. hospitable, LL. hospitare to receive
as a guest. See Host a landlord.]

1. Receiving and entertaining strangers or guests with kindness and
without reward; kind to strangers and guests; characterized by
hospitality. Shak.

2. Proceeding from or indicating kindness and generosity to guests
and strangers; as, hospitable rites.
To where you taper cheers the vale With hospitable ray. Goldsmith.

HOSPITABLENESS
Hos"pi*ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being hospitable; hospitality. Barrow.

HOSPITABLY
Hos"pi*ta*bly, adv.

Defn: In a hospitable manner.

HOSPITAGE
Hos"pi*tage, n. Etym: [LL. hospitagium, for L. hospitium. See
Hospice.]

Defn: Hospitality. [Obs.] Spenser.

HOSPITAL
Hos"pi*tal, n. Etym: [OF. hospital, ospital, F. hôpital, LL.
hospitale (or perh. E. hospital is directly from the Late Latin),
from L. hospitalis relating to a guest, hospitalia apartments for
guests, fr. hospes guest. See Host a landlord, and cf. Hostel, Hotel,
Spital.]

1. A place for shelter or entertainment; an inn. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. A building in which the sick, injured, or infirm are received and
treated; a public or private institution founded for reception and
cure, or for the refuge, of persons diseased in body or mind, or
disabled, infirm, or dependent, and in which they are treated either
at their own expense, or more often by charity in whole or in part; a
tent, building, or other place where the sick or wounded of an army
cared for. Hospital ship, a vessel fitted up for a floating hospital.
 -- Hospital Sunday, a Sunday set apart for simultaneous contribution
in churches to hospitals; as, the London Hospital Sunday.

HOSPITAL
Hos"pi*tal, a. Etym: [L. hospitalis: cf. OF. hospital.]

Defn: Hospitable. [Obs.] Howell.

HOSPITALER
Hos"pi*tal*er, n. [Written also hospitaller.] Etym: [F. hospitalier.
See Hospital, and cf. Hostler.]

1. One residing in a hospital, for the purpose of receiving the poor,
the sick, and strangers.

2. One of an order of knights who built a hospital at Jerusalem for
pilgrims, A. D. 1042. They were called Knights of St. John of
Jerusalem, and after the removal of the order to Malta, Knights of
Malta.

HOSPITALISM
Hos"pi*tal*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A vitiated condition of the body, due to long confinement in a
hospital, or the morbid condition of the atmosphere of a hospital.

HOSPITALITY
Hos`pi*tal"i*ty, n.; pl. Hospitalities. Etym: [L. hospitalitas: cf.
F. hospitalité.]

Defn: The act or practice of one who is hospitable; reception and
entertainment of strangers or guests without reward, or with kind and
generous liberality.
Given to hospitality. Rom. xii. 13.
And little recks to find the way to heaven By doing deeds of
hospitality. Shak.

HOSPITALIZE
Hos"pi*tal*ize, v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To render (a building) unfit for habitation, by long continued
use as a hospital.

HOSPITATE
Hos"pi*tate, v. i. Etym: [L. hospitatus, p.p. of hospitari to be a
guest, fr. hospes guest.]

Defn: To receive hospitality; to be a guest. [Obs.] Grew.

HOSPITATE
Hos"pi*tate, v. t.

Defn: To receive with hospitality; to lodge as a guest. [Obs.]
Cockeram.

HOSPITIUM
Hos*pi"ti*um, n. Etym: [L. See Hospice.]

1. An inn; a lodging; a hospice. [Obs.]

2. (Law)

Defn: An inn of court.

HOSPODAR
Hos"po*dar`, n. Etym: [A Slav. word; cf. Russ. gospodare lord,
master.]

Defn: A title borne by the princes or governors of Moldavia and
Wallachia before those countries were united as Roumania.

HOST
Host, n. Etym: [LL. hostia sacrifice, victim, from hostire to
strike.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The consecrated wafer, believed to be the body of Christ, which
in the Mass is offered as a sacrifice; also, the bread before
consecration.

Note: In the Latin Vulgate the word was applied to the Savior as
being an offering for the sins of men.

HOST
Host, n. Etym: [OE. host, ost, OF. host, ost, fr. L. hostis enemy,
LL., army. See Guest, and cf. Host a landlord.]

1. An army; a number of men gathered for war.
A host so great as covered all the field. Dryden.

2. Any great number or multitude; a throng.
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host praising God. Luke ii. 13.
All at once I saw a crowd, A host, of golden daffodils. Wordsworth.

HOST
Host, n. Etym: [OE. host, ost, OF. hoste, oste, F. hôte, from L.
hospes a stranger who is treated as a guest, he who treats another as
his guest, a hostl prob. fr. hostis stranger, enemy (akin to E. guest
a visitor) + potis able; akin to Skr. pati master, lord. See Host an
army, Possible, and cf. Hospitable, Hotel.]

Defn: One who receives or entertains another, whether gratuitosly or
for compensation; one from whom another receives food, lodging, or
entertainment; a landlord. Chaucer. "Fair host and Earl." Tennyson.
Time is like a fashionable host, That slightly shakes his parting
guest by the hand. Shak.

HOST
Host, v. t.

Defn: To give entertainment to. [Obs.] Spenser.

HOST
Host, v. i.

Defn: To lodge at an inn; to take up entertainment. [Obs.] "Where you
shall host." Shak.

HOSTAGE
Hos"tage, n. Etym: [OE. hostage, OF. hostage, ostage, F. ôtage, LL.
hostaticus, ostaticum, for hospitaticum, fr. L. hospes guest, host.
The first meaning is, the state of a guest, hospitality; hence, the
state of a hostage (treated as a guest); and both these meanings
occur in Old French. See Host a landlord.]

Defn: A person given as a pledge or security for the performance of
the conditions of a treaty or stipulations of any kind, on the
performance of which the person is to be released.
Your hostages I have, so have you mine; And we shall talk before we
fight. Shak.
He that hath a wife and children hath given hostages to fortune.
Bacon.

HOSTEL
Hos"tel, n. Etym: [OE. hostel, ostel, OF. hostel, ostel, LL.
hospitale, hospitalis, fr. L. hospitalis. See Hospital, and cf.
Hotel.]

1. An inn. [Archaic] Poe.
So pass I hostel, hall, and grange. Tennyson.

2. A small, unendowed college in Oxford or Cambridge. [Obs.]
Holinshed.

HOSTELER
Hos"tel*er, n. Etym: [See Hostel, and cf. Hostler.]

1. The keeper of a hostel or inn.

2. A student in a hostel, or small unendowed collede in Oxford or
Cambridge. [Obs.] Fuller.

HOSTELRY
Hos"tel*ry, n. Etym: [OE. hostelrie, hostelrye, ostelrie, OF.
hostelerie, fr. hostel. See Hostel.]

Defn: An inn; a lodging house. [Archaic] Chaucer. "Homely brought up
in a rude hostelry." B. Jonson.
Come with me to the hostelry. Longfellow.

HOSTESS
Host"ess, n. Etym: [OE. hostesse, ostesse. See Host a landlord.]

1. A female host; a woman who hospitably entertains guests at her
house. Shak.

2. A woman who entertains guests for compensation; a female
innkeeper. Shak.

HOSTESS-SHIP
Host"ess-ship, n.

Defn: The character, personality, or office of a hostess. Shak.

HOSTIE
Hos"tie, n. Etym: [F. See 1st Host.]

Defn: The consecrated wafer; the host. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.

HOSTILE
Hos"tile, a. Etym: [L. hostilis, from hostis enemy: cf. F. hostile.
See Host an army.]

Defn: Belonging or appropriate to an enemy; showing the disposition
of an enemy; showing ill will and malevolence, or a desire to thwart
and injure; occupied by an enemy or enemies; inimical; unfriendly;
as, a hostile force; hostile intentions; a hostile country; hostile
to a sudden change.

Syn.
 -- Warlike; inimical; unfriendly; antagonistic; opposed; adverse;
opposite; contrary; repugnant.

HOSTILE
Hos"tile, n.

Defn: An enemy; esp., an American Indian in arms against the whites;
-- commonly in the plural. [Colloq.] P. H. Sheridan.

HOSTILELY
Hos"tile*ly, adv.

Defn: In a hostile manner.

HOSTILITY
Hos*til"i*ty, n.; pl. Hostilities. Etym: [L. hostilitas: cf. F.
hostilité.]

1. State of being hostile; public or private enemy; unfriendliness;
animosity.
Hostility being thus suspended with France. Hayward.

2. An act of an open enemy; a hostile deed; especially in the plural,
acts of warfare; attacks of an enemy.
We have showed ourselves generous adversaries . . . and have carried
on even our hostilities with humanity. Atterbury.
He who proceeds to wanton hostility, often provokes an enemy where he
might have a friend. Crabb.

Syn.
 -- Animosity; enmity; opposition; violence; aggression; contention;
warfare.

HOSTILIZE
Hos"til*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make hostile; to cause to become an enemy. [Obs.] A. Seward.

HOSTING
Host"ing, n. Etym: [From Host an army.] [Obs.]

1. An encounter; a battle. "Fierce hosting." Milton.

2. A muster or review. Spenser.

HOSTLER
Hos"tler, n. Etym: [OE. hosteler, osteler, innkeeper, OF. hostelier,
F. hôtelier. See Hostel, and cf. Hospitaler, Hosteler.]

1. An innkeeper. [Obs.] See Hosteler.

2. The person who has the care of horses at an inn or stable; hence,
any one who takes care of horses; a groom; -- so called because the
innkeeper formerly attended to this duty in person.

3. (Railroad)

Defn: The person who takes charge of a locomotive when it is left by
the engineer after a trip.

HOSTLESS
Host"less, a.

Defn: Inhospitable. [Obs.] "A hostless house." Spenser.

HOST PLANT
Host plant. (Agric.)

Defn: A plant which aids, shelters, or protects another plant in its
growth, as those which are used for nurse crops.

HOSTRY
Host"ry, n. Etym: [OE. hosterie, osterie, OF. hosterie. See Host a
landlord.]

1. A hostelry; an inn or lodging house. [Obs.] Marlowe.

2. A stable for horses. [Obs.] Johnson.

HOT
Hot, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Hote. [Obs.] Spenser.

HOT
Hot, a. [Compar. Hotter; superl. Hottest.] Etym: [OE. hot, hat, AS.
hat; akin to OS. het, D. heet, OHG. heiz, G. heiss, Icel. heitr, Sw.
het, Dan. heed, hed; cf. Goth. heito fever, hais torch. Cf. Heat.]

1. Having much sensible heat; exciting the feeling of warmth in a
great degree; very warm; -- opposed to cold, and exceeding warm in
degree; as, a hot stove; hot water or air. "A hotvenison pasty."
Shak.

2. Characterized by heat, ardor, or animation; easily excited;
firely; vehement; passionate; violent; eager.
Achilles is impatient, hot, and revengeful. Dryden.
There was mouthing in hot haste. Byron.

3. Lustful; lewd; lecherous. Shak.

4. Acrid; biting; pungent; as, hot as mustard. Hot bed (Iron Manuf.),
an iron platform in a rolling mill, on which hot bars, rails, etc.,
are laid to cool.
 -- Hot wall (Gardening), a wall provided with flues for the
conducting of heat, to hasten the growth of fruit trees or the
ripening of fruit.
 -- Hot well (Condensing Engines), a receptacle for the hot water
drawn from the condenser by the air pump. This water is returned to
the boiler, being drawn from the hot well by the feed pump.
 -- In hot water (Fig.), in trouble; in difficulties. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Burning; fiery; fervid; glowing; eager; animated; brisk;
vehement; precipitate; violent; furious; ardent; fervent; impetuous;
irascible; passionate; hasty; excitable.

HOTBED
Hot"bed`, n.

1. (Gardening)

Defn: A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances,
and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or for
nourishing exotics.

2. A place which favors rapid growth or development; as, a hotbed of
sedition.

HOT BLAST
Hot" blast`.

Defn: See under Blast.

HOT-BLOODED
Hot"-blood`ed, a.

Defn: Having hot blood; excitable; high-spirited; irritable; ardent;
passionate.

HOT-BRAINED
Hot"-brained`, a.

Defn: Ardent in temper; violent; rash; impetuous; as, hot-brained
youth. Dryden.

HOT BULB; HOT POT
Hot bulb, Hot pot. (Internal-combustion Engines)

Defn: See Semi-diesel, below.

HOTCHKISS GUN
Hotch"kiss gun [After Benjamin B. Hotchkiss (1826-85), American
inventor.]

Defn: A built-up, rifled, rapid-fire gun of oil-tempered steel,
having a rectangular breechblock which moves horizontally or
vertically in a mortise cut completely through the jacket. It is made
in France.

HOTCHPOT; HOTCHPOTCH
Hotch"pot`, Hotch"potch`, n. Etym: [F. hochepot, fr. hocher to shake
+ pot pot; both of Dutch or German origin; cf. OD. hutspot
hotchpotch, D. hotsen, hutsen, to shake. See Hustle, and Pot, and cf.
Hodgepodge.]

1. A mingled mass; a confused mixture; a stew of various ingredients;
a hodgepodge.
A mixture or hotchpotch of many tastes. Bacon.

2. (Law)

Defn: A blending of property for equality of division, as when lands
given in frank-marriage to one daughter were, after the death of the
ancestor, blended with the lands descending to her and to her sisters
from the same ancestor, and then divided in equal portions among all
the daughters. In modern usage, a mixing together, or throwing into a
common mass or stock, of the estate left by a person deceased and the
amounts advanced to any particular child or children, for the purpose
of a more equal division, or of equalizing the shares of all the
children; the property advanced being accounted for at its value when
given. Bouvier. Tomlins.

Note: This term has been applied in cases of salvage. Story. It
corresponds in a measure with collation in the civil and Scotch law.
See Collation. Bouvier. Tomlins.

HOTCOCKLES
Hot"coc`kles, n. Etym: [Hot + cockle, cockle being perh. corrupt. fr.
knuckle. Cf. F. main chaude (lit., hot hand) hotcockles.]

Defn: A childish play, in which one covers his eyes, and guesses who
strikes him or his hand placed behind him.

HOTE
Hote, v. t. & i. [pres. & imp. Hatte, Hot (, etc.; p. p. Hote, Hoten
(, Hot, etc. See Hight, Hete.]

1. To command; to enjoin. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

2. To promise. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. To be called; to be named. [Obs.]
There as I was wont to hote Arcite, Now hight I Philostrate, not
worth a mite. Chaucer.

HOTEL
Ho*tel", n. Etym: [F. hôtel, OF. hostel. See Hostel.]

1. A house for entertaining strangers or travelers; an inn or public
house, of the better class.

2. In France, the mansion or town residence of a person of rank or
wealth.

HOTEL-DE-VILLE
Hôtel`-de-ville", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A city hall or townhouse.

HOTEL-DIEU
Hôtel`-Dieu", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A hospital.

HOTEN
Hot"en, p. p.

Defn: of Hote.

HOTFOOT
Hot"foot`, adv.

Defn: In haste; foothot. [Colloq.]

HOT-HEAD
Hot"-head`, n.

Defn: A violent, passionate person; a hasty or impetuous person; as,
the rant of a hot-head.

HOT-HEADED
Hot"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Fiery; violent; rash; hasty; impetuous; vehement. Macaulay.

HOTHOUSE
Hot"house`, n.

1. A house kept warm to shelter tender plants and shrubs from the
cold air; a place in which the plants of warmer climates may be
reared, and fruits ripened.

2. A bagnio, or bathing house. [Obs.] Shak.

3. A brothel; a bagnio. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

4. (Pottery)

Defn: A heated room for drying green ware.

HOT-LIVERED
Hot"-liv`ered, a.

Defn: Of an excitable or irritable temperament; irascible. Milton.

HOTLY
Hot"ly, adv. Etym: [From Hot, a.]

1. In a hot or fiery manner; ardently; vehemently; violently;
hastily; as, a hotly pursued.

2. In a lustful manner; lustfully. Dryden.

HOT-MOUTHED
Hot"-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Headstrong.
That hot-mouthed beast that bears against the curb. Dryden.

HOTNESS
Hot"ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being hot.

2. Heat or excitement of mind or manner; violence; vehemence;
impetuousity; ardor; fury. M. Arnold.

HOTPRESS
Hot"press`, v. t.

Defn: To apply to, in conjunction with mechanical pressure, for the
purpose of giving a smooth and glosay surface, or to express oil,
etc.; as, to hotpress paper, linen, etc.

HOTPRESSED
Hot"pressed`, a.

Defn: Pressed while heat is applied. See Hotpress, v. t.

HOT-SHORT
Hot"-short`, a. (Metal.)

Defn: More or less brittle when heated; as, hot-short iron.

HOT-SPIRITED
Hot"-spir`it*ed, a.

Defn: Having a fierly spirit; hot-headed.

HOTSPUR
Hot"spur`, n. Etym: [Hot + spur.]

Defn: A rash, hot-headed man. Holinshed.

HOTSPUR; HOTSPURRED
Hot"spur`, Hot"spurred`, a.

Defn: Violent; impetuous; headstrong. Spenser. Peacham.

HOTTENTOT
Hot"ten*tot, n. Etym: [D. Hottentot; -- so called from hot and tot,
two syllables of frequent occurrence in their language. Wedgwood.]

1. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a degraded and savage race of South Africa, with
yellowish brown complexion, high cheek bones, and wooly hair growing
in tufts.

2. The language of the Hottentots, which is remarkable for its
clicking sounds. Hottentot cherry (Bot.), a South African plant of
the genus Cassine (C. maurocenia), having handsome foliage, with
generally inconspicuous white or green flowers. Loudon.
 -- Hottentot's bread. (Bot.) See Elephant's foot (a), under
Elephant.

HOTTENTOTISM
Hot"ten*tot*ism, n.

Defn: A term employed to describe one of the varieties of stammering.
Tylor.

HOUDAH
Hou"dah, n.

Defn: See Howdah.

HOUGH
Hough, n.

Defn: Same as Hock, a joint.

HOUGH
Hough, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Houghed; p. pr. & vb. n. Houghing.]

Defn: Same as Hock, to hamstring.

HOUGH
Hough, n. Etym: [Cf. D. hak. Cf. Hack.]

Defn: An adz; a hoe. [Obs.] Bp. Stillingfleet.

HOUGH
Hough, v. t.

Defn: To cut with a hoe. [Obs.] Johnson.

HOULET
Hou"let, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An owl. See Howlet.

HOULT
Hoult, n.

Defn: A piece of woodland; a small wood. [Obs.] See Holt.

HOUND
Hound, n. Etym: [OE. hound, hund, dog, AS. hund; akin to OS. &
OFries. hund, D. hond, G. hund, OHG. hunt, Icel. hundr, Dan. & Sw.
hund, Goth. hunds, and prob. to Lith. sz, Ir. & Gael. cu, L. canis,
Gr. çvan. sq. root229. Cf. Canine, Cynic, Kennel.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of the domestic dog, usually having large, drooping
ears, esp. one which hunts game by scent, as the foxhound,
bloodhound, deerhound, but also used for various breeds of fleet
hunting dogs, as the greyhound, boarhound, etc.
Hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs. Shak.

2. A despicable person. "Boy! false hound!" Shak.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A houndfish.

4. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Projections at the masthead, serving as a support for the
trestletrees and top to rest on.

5. A side bar used to strengthen portions of the running gear of a
vehicle. To follow the hounds, to hunt with hounds.

HOUND
Hound, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Hounding.]

1. To set on the chase; to incite to pursuit; as, to hounda dog at a
hare; to hound on pursuers. Abp. Bramhall.

2. To hunt or chase with hounds, or as with hounds. L'Estrange.

HOUNDFISH
Hound"fish, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any small shark of the genus Galeus or Mustelus, of which there
are several species, as the smooth houndfish (G. canis), of Europe
and America; -- called also houndshark, and dogfish.

Note: The European nursehound, or small-spotted dogfish, is Scyllium
canicula; the rough houndfish, or large-spotted dogfish, is S.
catulus. The name has also sometimes been applied to the bluefish
(Pomatomus saltatrix), and to the silver gar.

HOUNDING
Hound"ing, n.

1. The act of one who hounds.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The part of a mast below the hounds and above the deck.

HOUND'S-TONGUE
Hound's"-tongue`, n. Etym: [AS. hundes tunge.] (Bot.)

Defn: A biennial weed (Cynoglossum officinale), with soft tongue-
shaped leaves, and an offensive odor. It bears nutlets covered with
barbed or hooked prickles. Called also dog's-tongue.

HOUP
Houp, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Hoopoe. [Obs.]

HOUR
Hour, n. Etym: [OE. hour, our, hore, ure, OF. hore, ore, ure, F.
heure, L. hora, fr. Gr. Year, and cf. Horologe, Horoscope.]

1. The twenty-fourth part of a day; sixty minutes.

2. The time of the day, as expressed in hours and minutes, and
indicated by a timepiece; as, what is the hour At what hour shall we
meet

3. Fixed or appointed time; conjuncture; a particular time or
occasion; as, the hour of greatest peril; the man for the hour.
Woman, . . . mine hour is not yet come. John ii. 4.
This is your hour, and the power of darkness. Luke xxii. 53.

4. pl. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Certain prayers to be repeated at stated times of the day, as
matins and vespers.

5. A measure of distance traveled.
Vilvoorden, three hours from Brussels. J. P. Peters.
After hours, after the time appointed for one's regular labor.
 -- Canonical hours. See under Canonical.
 -- Hour angle (Astron.), the angle between the hour circle passing
through a given body, and the meridian of a place.
 -- Hour circle. (Astron.) (a) Any circle of the sphere passing
through the two poles of the equator; esp., one of the circles drawn
on an artificial globe through the poles, and dividing the equator
into spaces of 15º, or one hour, each. (b) A circle upon an
equatorial telescope lying parallel to the plane of the earth's
equator, and graduated in hours and subdivisions of hours of right
ascension. (c) A small brass circle attached to the north pole of an
artificial globe, and divided into twenty-four parts or hours. It is
used to mark differences of time in working problems on the globe.
 -- Hour hand, the hand or index which shows the hour on a timepiece.
 -- Hour line. (a) (Astron.) A line indicating the hour. (b)
(Dialing) A line on which the shadow falls at a given hour; the
intersection of an hour circle which the face of the dial.
 -- Hour plate, the plate of a timepiece on which the hours are
marked; the dial. Locke.
 -- Sidereal hour, the twenty-fourth part of a sidereal day.
 -- Solar hour, the twenty-fourth part of a solar day.
 -- The small hours, the early hours of the morning, as one o'clock,
two o'clock, etc.
 -- To keep good hours, to be regular in going to bed early.

HOURGLASS
Hour"glass`, n.

Defn: An instrument for measuring time, especially the interval of an
hour. It consists of a glass vessel having two compartments, from the
uppermost of which a quantity of sand, water, or mercury occupies an
hour in running through a small aperture unto the lower.

Note: A similar instrument measuring any other interval of time takes
its name from the interval measured; as, a half-hour glass, a half-
minute glass. A three-minute glass is sometimes called an egg-glass,
from being used to time the boiling of eggs.

HOURI
Hou"ri, n.; pl. Houris. Etym: [Per. huri, hura, hur; akin to Ar. hur,
pl. of ahwar beautiful-eyed, black-eyed.]

Defn: A nymph of paradise; -- so called by the Mohammedans.

HOURLY
Hour"ly, a.

Defn: Happening or done every hour; occurring hour by hour; frequent;
often repeated; renewed hour by hour; continual.
In hourly expectation of a martyrdom. Sharp.

HOURLY
Hour"ly, adv.

Defn: Every hour; frequently; continually.
Great was their strife, which hourly was renewed. Dryden.

HOURS
Hours, n. pl. Etym: [A translation of L. Horae (Gr. Hour.] (Myth.)

Defn: Goddess of the seasons, or of the hours of the day.
Lo! where the rosy-blosomed Hours, Fair Venus' train, appear. Gray.

HOUSAGE
Hous"age, n. Etym: [From House.]

Defn: A fee for keeping goods in a house. [R.] Chambers.

HOUSE
House, n.; pl. Houses. Etym: [OE. hous, hus, AS. h; akin to OS. &
OFries. h, D. huis, OHG. h, G. haus, Icel. h, Sw. hus, Dan. huus,
Goth. gudh, house of God, temple; and prob. to E. hide to conceal.
See Hide, and cf. Hoard, Husband, Hussy, Husting.]

1. A structure intended or used as a habitation or shelter for
animals of any kind; but especially, a building or edifice for the
habitation of man; a dwelling place, a mansion.
Houses are built to live in; not to look on. Bacon.
Bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench Are from their hives
and houses driven away. Shak.

2. Household affairs; domestic concerns; particularly in the phrase
to keep house. See below.

3. Those who dwell in the same house; a household.
One that feared God with all his house. Acts x. 2.

4. A family of ancestors, descendants, and kindred; a race of persons
from the same stock; a tribe; especially, a noble family or an
illustrious race; as, the house of Austria; the house of Hanover; the
house of Israel.
The last remaining pillar of their house, The one transmitter of
their ancient name. Tennyson.

5. One of the estates of a kingdom or other government assembled in
parliament or legislature; a body of men united in a legislative
capacity; as, the House of Lords; the House of Commons; the House of
Representatives; also, a quorum of such a body. See Congress, and
Parliament.

6. (Com.)

Defn: A firm, or commercial establishment.

7. A public house; an inn; a hotel.

8. (Astrol.)

Defn: A twelfth part of the heavens, as divided by six circles
intersecting at the north and south points of the horizon, used by
astrologers in noting the positions of the heavenly bodies, and
casting horoscopes or nativities. The houses were regarded as fixed
in respect to the horizon, and numbered from the one at the eastern
horizon, called the ascendant, first house, or house of life,
downward, or in the direction of the earth's revolution, the stars
and planets passing through them in the reverse order every twenty-
four hours.

9. A square on a chessboard, regarded as the proper place of a piece.

10. An audience; an assembly of hearers, as at a lecture, a theater,
etc.; as, a thin or a full house.

11. The body, as the habitation of the soul.
This mortal house I'll ruin, Do Cæsar what he can. Shak.

12. [With an adj., as narrow, dark, etc.]

Defn: The grave. "The narrow house." Bryant.

Note: House is much used adjectively and as the first element of
compounds. The sense is usually obvious; as, house cricket,
housemaid, house painter, housework. House ant (Zoöl.), a very small,
yellowish brown ant (Myrmica molesta), which often infests houses,
and sometimes becomes a great pest.
 -- House of bishops (Prot. Epis. Ch.), one of the two bodies
composing a general convertion, the other being House of Clerical and
Lay Deputies.
 -- House boat, a covered boat used as a dwelling.
 -- House of call, a place, usually a public house, where journeymen
connected with a particular trade assemble when out of work, ready
for the call of employers. [Eng.] Simonds.
 -- House car (Railroad), a freight car with inclosing sides and a
roof; a box car.
 -- House of correction. See Correction.
 -- House cricket (Zoöl.), a European cricket (Gryllus domesticus),
which frequently lives in houses, between the bricks of chimneys and
fireplaces. It is noted for the loud chirping or stridulation of the
males.
 -- House dog, a dog kept in or about a dwelling house.
 -- House finch (Zoöl.), the burion.
 -- House flag, a flag denoting the commercial house to which a
merchant vessel belongs.
 -- House fly (Zoöl.), a common fly (esp. Musca domestica), which
infests houses both in Europe and America. Its larva is a maggot
which lives in decaying substances or excrement, about sink drains,
etc.
 -- House of God, a temple or church.
 -- House of ill fame. See Ill fame under Ill, a.
 -- House martin (Zoöl.), a common European swallow (Hirundo urbica).
It has feathered feet, and builds its nests of mud against the walls
of buildings. Called also house swallow, and window martin.
 -- House mouse (Zoöl.), the common mouse (Mus musculus).
 -- House physician, the resident medical adviser of a hospital or
other public institution.
 -- House snake (Zoöl.), the milk snake.
 -- House sparrow (Zoöl.), the common European sparrow (Passer
domesticus). It has recently been introduced into America, where it
has become very abundant, esp. in cities. Called also thatch sparrow.
 -- House spider (Zoöl.), any spider which habitually lives in
houses. Among the most common species are Theridium tepidariorum and
Tegenaria domestica.
 -- House surgeon, the resident surgeon of a hospital.
 -- House wren (Zoöl.), the common wren of the Eastern United States
(Troglodytes aëdon). It is common about houses and in gardens, and is
noted for its vivacity, and loud musical notes. See Wren.
 -- Religious house, a monastery or convent.
 -- The White House, the official residence of the President of the
United States; -- hence, colloquially, the office of President.
 -- To bring down the house. See under Bring.
 -- To keep house, to maintain an independent domestic establishment.
 -- To keep open house, to entertain friends at all times.

Syn.
 -- Dwelling; residence; abode. See Tenement.

HOUSE
House, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Housed; p. pr. & vb. n. Housing.] Etym:
[AS. h.]

1. To take or put into a house; to shelter under a roof; to cover
from the inclemencies of the weather; to protect by covering; as, to
house one's family in a comfortable home; to house farming utensils;
to house cattle.
At length have housed me in a humble shed. Young.
House your choicest carnations, or rather set them under a penthouse.
Evelyn.

2. To drive to a shelter. Shak.

3. To admit to residence; to harbor.
Palladius wished him to house all the Helots. Sir P. Sidney.

4. To deposit and cover, as in the grave. Sandys.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe; as, to
house the upper spars.

HOUSE
House, v. i.

1. To take shelter or lodging; to abide to dwell; to lodge.
You shall not house with me. Shak.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: To have a position in one of the houses. See House, n.,

8. "Where Saturn houses." Dryden.

HOUSEBOTE
House"bote`, n. Etym: [House + bote.] (Law)

Defn: Wood allowed to a tenant for repairing the house and for fuel.
This latter is often called firebote. See Bote.

HOUSEBREAKER
House"break`er, n.

Defn: One who is guilty of the crime of housebreaking.

HOUSEBREAKING
House"break`ing, n.

Defn: The act of breaking open and entering, with a felonious
purpose, the dwelling house of another, whether done by day or night.
See Burglary, and To break a house, under Break.

HOUSEBUILDER
House"build`er, n.

Defn: One whose business is to build houses; a housewright.

HOUSECARL
House"carl`, n. Etym: [OE. huscarle. See House, and Carl.] (Eng.
Archæol.)

Defn: A household servant; also, one of the bodyguard of King Canute.

HOUSEHOLD
House"hold`, n.

1. Those who dwell under the same roof and compose a family.
And calls, without affecting airs, His household twice a day to
prayers. Swift.

2. A line of ancestory; a race or house. [Obs.] Shak.

HOUSEHOLD
House"hold`, a.

Defn: Belonging to the house and family; domestic; as, household
furniture; household affairs. Household bread, bread made in the
house for common use; hence, bread that is not of the finest quality.
[Obs.] -- Household gods (Rom. Antiq.), the gods presiding over the
house and family; the Lares and Penates; hence, all objects endeared
by association with home.
 -- Household troops, troops appointed to attend and guard the
sovereign or his residence.

HOUSEHOLDER
House"hold`er, n.

Defn: The master or head of a family; one who occupies a house with
his family.
Towns in which almost every householder was an English Protestant.
Macaulay.
Compound householder. See Compound, a.

HOUSEKEEPER
House"keep`er, n.

1. One who occupies a house with his family; a householder; the
master or mistress of a family. Locke.

2. One who does, or oversees, the work of keeping house; as, his wife
is a good housekeeper; often, a woman hired to superintend the
servants of a household and manage the ordinary domestic affairs.

3. One who exercises hospitality, or has plentiful and hospitable
household. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

4. One who keeps or stays much at home. [R.]
You are manifest housekeeper. Shak.

5. A house dog. [Obs.] Shak.

HOUSEKEEPING
House"keep`ing, n.

1. The state of being occupying a dwelling house as a householder.

2. Care of domestic concerns; management of a house and home affairs.

3. Hospitality; a liberal and hospitable table; a supply of
provisions. [Obs.]
Tell me, softly and hastly, what's in the pantry Small housekeeping
enough, said Phoebe. Sir W. Scott.

HOUSEKEEPING
House"keep`ing, a.

Defn: Domestic; used in a family; as, housekeeping commodities.

HOUSEL
Hou"sel, n. Etym: [OE. housel, husel, AS. h; akin to Icel. h, Goth.
hunsl a sacrifice.]

Defn: The eucharist. [Archaic] Rom. of R. Tennyson.

HOUSEL
Hou"sel, v. t. Etym: [AS. h.]

Defn: To administer the eucharist to. [Archaic] Chaucer.

HOUSELEEK
House"leek`, n. Etym: [House + leek.] (Bot.)

Defn: A succulent plant of the genus Sempervivum (S. tectorum),
originally a native of subalpine Europe, but now found very generally
on old walls and roofs. It is very tenacious of life under drought
and heat; -- called also ayegreen.

HOUSELESS
House"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of the shelter of a house; shelterless; homeless; as,
a houseless wanderer.

HOUSELESSNESS
House"less*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being houseless.

HOUSELINE
House"line`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A small line of three strands used for seizing; -- called also
housing. Totten.

HOUSELING
House"ling`, a.

Defn: Same as Housling.

HOUSEMAID
House"maid`, n.

Defn: A female servant employed to do housework, esp. to take care of
the rooms. Housemaid's knee (Med.), a swelling over the knee, due to
an enlargement of the bursa in the front of the kneepan; -- so called
because frequently occurring in servant girls who work upon their
knees.

HOUSEMATE
House"mate`, n.

Defn: One who dwells in the same house with another. R. Browning.

HOUSEROOM
House"room`, n.

Defn: Room or place in a house; as, to give any one houseroom.

HOUSEWARMING
House"warm`ing, n.

Defn: A feast or merry-making made by or for a family or business
firm on taking possession of a new house or premises. Johnson.

HOUSEWIFE
House"wife`, n. Etym: [House + wife. Cf. Hussy.]

1. The wife of a householder; the mistress of a family; the female
head of a household. Shak.
He a good husband, a good housewife she. Dryden.

2. (Usually pronounced Etym: [See Hussy, in this sense.]

Defn: A little case or bag for materials used in sewing, and for
other articles of female work; -- called also hussy. [Written also
huswife.] P. Skelton.

3. A hussy. [R.] [Usually written huswife.] Shak. Sailor's housewife,
a ditty-bag.

HOUSEWIFE; HOUSEWIVE
House"wife`, House"wive`, v. t.

Defn: To manage with skill and economy, as a housewife or other
female manager; to economize.
Conferred those moneys on the nuns, which since they have well
housewived. Fuller.

HOUSEWIFELY
House"wife`ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining or appropriate to a housewife; domestic; economical;
prudent.
A good sort of woman, ladylike and housewifely. Sir W. Scott.

HOUSEWIFERY
House"wif`er*y, n.

Defn: The business of the mistress of a family; female management of
domestic concerns.

HOUSEWORK
House"work`, n.

Defn: The work belonging to housekeeping; especially, kitchen work,
sweeping, scrubbing, bed making, and the like.

HOUSEWRIGHT
House"wright`, n.

Defn: A builder of houses.

HOUSING
Hous"ing, n. Etym: [From House. In some of its senses this word has
been confused with the following word.]

1. The act of putting or receiving under shelter; the state of
dwelling in a habitation.

2. That which shelters or covers; houses, taken collectively. Fabyan.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The space taken out of one solid, to admit the insertion of part
of another, as the end of one timber in the side of another.
(b) A niche for a statue.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: A frame or support for holding something in place, as journal
boxes, etc.

5. (Naut.)
(a) That portion of a mast or bowsprit which is beneath the deck or
within the vessel.
(b) A covering or protection, as an awning over the deck of a ship
when laid up.
(c) A houseline. See Houseline.

HOUSING
Hous"ing, n. Etym: [From Houss.]

1. A cover or cloth for a horse's saddle, as an ornamental or
military appendage; a saddlecloth; a horse cloth; in plural,
trappings.

2. An appendage to the hames or collar of a harness.

HOUSLING
Hous"ling, a. Etym: [See Housel.]

Defn: Sacramental; as, housling fire. [R.] Spenser.

HOUSS
Houss, n. Etym: [F. housse, LL. hulcia, fr. OHG. hulst; akin to E.
holster. See Holster, and cf. 2d Housing.]

Defn: A saddlecloth; a housing. [Obs.] Dryden.

HOUSTONIA
Hous*to"ni*a, n. [NL. So named after Dr. William Houston, an English
surgeon and botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of small rubiaceous herbs, having tetramerous salveform
blue or white flower. There are about twenty species, natives of
North America. Also, a plant of this genus.

HOUTOU
Hou"tou, n. Etym: [From its note.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beautiful South American motmot. Waterton.

HOUVE
Houve, n. Etym: [AS. hufe.]

Defn: A head covering of various kinds; a hood; a coif; a cap. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

HOUYHNHNM
Hou*yhnhnm", n.

Defn: One of the race of horses described by Swift in his imaginary
travels of Lemuel Gulliver. The Houyhnhnms were endowed with reason
and noble qualities; subject to them were Yahoos, a race of brutes
having the form and all the worst vices of men.

HOVE
Hove, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Heave. Hove short, Hove to. See To heave a cable short, To
heave a ship to, etc., under Heave.

HOVE
Hove, v. i. & t.

Defn: To rise; to swell; to heave; to cause to swell. [Obs. or Scot.]
Holland. Burns.

HOVE
Hove, v. i. Etym: [OE. hoven. See Hover.]

Defn: To hover around; to loiter; to lurk. [Obs.] Gower.

HOVEL
Hov"el, n. Etym: [OE. hovel, hovil, prob. a dim. fr. AS. hof house;
akin to D. & G. hof court, yard, Icel. hof temple; cf. Prov. E. hove
to take shelter, heuf shelter, home.]

1. An open shed for sheltering cattle, or protecting produce, etc.,
from the weather. Brande & C.

2. A poor cottage; a small, mean house; a hut.

3. (Porcelain Manuf.)

Defn: A large conical brick structure around which the firing kilns
are grouped. Knight.

HOVEL
Hov"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hoveled or Hovelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Hoveling or Hovelling.]

Defn: To put in a hovel; to shelter.
To hovel thee with swine, and rogues forlon. Shak.
The poor are hoveled and hustled together. Tennyson.

HOVELER
Hov"el*er, n.

Defn: One who assists in saving life and property from a wreck; a
coast boatman. [Written also hoveller.] [Prov. Eng.] G. P. R. James.

HOVELING
Hov"el*ing, n.

Defn: A method of securing a good draught in chimneys by covering the
top, leaving openings in the sides, or by carrying up two of the
sides higher than the other two. [Written also hovelling.]

HOVEN
Ho"ven, obs. or archaic

Defn: p. p. of Heave.

HOVEN
Ho"ven, a.

Defn: Affected with the disease called hoove; as, hoven cattle.

HOVER
Hov"er, n. Etym: [Etymol. doubtful.]

Defn: A cover; a shelter; a protection. [Archaic] Carew. C. Kingsley.

HOVER
Hov"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Hovered; p. pr. & vb. n. Hovering.] Etym:
[OE. hoveren, and hoven, prob. orig., to abide, linger, and fr. AS.
hof house; cf. OFries. hovia to receive into one's house. See Hovel.]

1. To hang fluttering in the air, or on the wing; to remain in flight
or floating about or over a place or object; to be suspended in the
air above something.
Great flights of birds are hovering about the bridge, and settling on
it. Addison.
A hovering mist came swimming o'er his sight. Dryden.

2. To hang about; to move to and fro near a place, threateningly,
watchfully, or irresolutely.
Agricola having sent his navy to hover on the coast. Milton.
Hovering o'er the paper with her quill. Shak.

HOVERER
Hov"er*er, n.

Defn: A device in an incubator for protecting the young chickens and
keeping them warm.

HOVER-HAWK
Hov"er-hawk`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The kestrel.

HOVERINGLY
Hov"er*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a hovering manner.

HOW
How, adv. Etym: [OE. how, hou, hu, hwu, AS. h, from the same root as
hwa, hwæt, who, what, pron. interrog.; akin to OS. hwow, D. hoe, cf.
G. wie how, Goth. hwe wherewith, hwaiwa how. sq. root182. See Who,
and cf. Why.]

1. In what manner or way; by what means or process.
How can a man be born when he is old John iii. 4.

2. To what degree or extent, number or amount; in what proportion; by
what measure or quality.
O, how love I thy law! it is my meditation all the day. Ps. cxix. 97.
By how much they would diminish the present extent of the sea, so
much they would impair the fertility, and fountains, and rivers of
the earth. Bentley.

3. For what reason; from what cause.
How now, my love! why is your cheek so pale Shak.

4. In what state, condition, or plight.
How, and with what reproach, shall I return Dryden.

5. By what name, designation, or title.
How art thou called Shak.

6. At what price; how dear. [Obs.]
How a score of ewes now Shak.

Note: How is used in each sense, interrogatively, interjectionally,
and relatively; it is also often employed to emphasize an
interrogation or exclamation. "How are the mighty fallen!" 2 Sam. i.
27. Sometimes, also, it is used as a noun; -- as, the how, the when,
the wherefore. Shelley.
Let me beg you -- don't say "How" for "What" Holmes.

HOWADJI
How*adj"i, n. Etym: [Ar.]

1. A traveler.

2. A merchant; -- so called in the East because merchants were
formerly the chief travelers.

HOWBEIT
How*be"it, conj. Etym: [How + be + it.]

Defn: Be it as it may; nevertheless; notwithstanding; although;
albeit; yet; but; however.
The Moor -- howbeit that I endure him not -Is of a constant, loving,
noble nature. Shak.

HOWDAH
How"dah, n. Etym: [Ar. hawdaj.]

Defn: A seat or pavilion, generally covered, fastened on the back of
an elephant, for the rider or riders. [Written also houdah.]

HOWDY
How"dy, n. Etym: [Scot., also houdy- wife. Of uncertain origin; cf.
OSw. jordgumma; or perh. fr. E. how d'ye.]

Defn: A midwife. [Prov. Eng.]

HOWEL
How"el, n.

Defn: A tool used by coopers for smoothing and chamfering rheir work,
especially the inside of casks.

HOWEL
How"el, v. t.

Defn: To smooth; to plane; as, to howel a cask.

HOWELL
How"ell, n.

Defn: The upper stage of a porcelian furnace.

HOWEVER
How*ev"er, adv. Etym: [Sometimes contracted into howe'er.]

1. In whetever manner, way, or degree.
However yet they me despise and spite. Spenser.
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault. Shak.

2. At all events; at least; in any case.
Our chief end is to be freed from all, if it may be, however from the
greatest evils. Tillotson.

HOWEVER
How*ev"er, conj.

Defn: Nevertheless; notwithstanding; yet; still; though; as, I shall
not oppose your design; I can not, however, approve of it.
In your excuse your love does little say; You might howe'er have took
a better way. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- However, At least, Nevertheless, Yet. These words, as here
compared, have an adversative sense in reference to something
referred to in the context. However is the most general, and leads to
a final conclusion or decision. Thus we say, the truth, however, has
not yet fully come out; i.e., such is the speaker's conclusion in
view of the whole case. So also we say, however, you may rely on my
assistance to that amount; i. e., at all events, whatever may happen,
this is my final decision. At least is adversative in another way. It
points out the utmost concession that can possibly be required, and
still marks the adversative conclusion; as, at least, this must be
done; whatever may be our love of peace, we must at least maintain
the rights of conscience. Nevertheless denotes that though the
concession be fully made, it has no bearing of the question; as,
nevertheless, we must go forward. Yet signifies that however extreme
the supposition or fact comceded may be, the consequence which might
naturally be expected does not and will not follow; as, though I
should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee; though he slay me,
yet will I trust in him. Cf. But.

HOWITZ
How"itz, n.

Defn: A howitzer. [Obs.]

HOWITZER
How"itz*er, n. Etym: [G. haubitze, formerly hauffnitz, Bohem.
haufnice, orig., a sling.] (Mil.)
(a) A gun so short that the projectile, which was hollow, could be
put in its place by hand; a kind of mortar. [Obs.]
(b) A short, light, largebore cannon, usually having a chamber of
smaller diameter than the rest of the bore, and intended to throw
large projectiles with comparatively small charges.

HOWKER
How"ker, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Same as Hooker.

HOWL
Howl, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Howled; p. pr. & vb. n. Howling.] Etym:
[OE. houlen, hulen; akin to D. huilen, MHG. hiulen, hiuweln, OHG.
hiuwilon to exult, h owl, Dan. hyle to howl.]

1. To utter a loud, protraced, mournful sound or cry, as dogs and
wolves often do.
And dogs in corners set them down to howl. Drayton.
Methought a legion of foul fiends Environ'd me about, and howled in
my ears. Shak.

2. To utter a sound expressive of distress; to cry aloud and
mournfully; to lament; to wail.
Howl ye, for the day of the Lord is at hand. Is. xiii. 6.

3. To make a noise resembling the cry of a wild beast.
Wild howled the wind. Sir W. Scott.
Howling monkey. (Zoöl.) See Howler, 2.
 -- Howling wilderness, a wild, desolate place inhabited only by wild
beasts. Deut. xxxii. 10.