

POECILE
Poe"ci*le, n.

Defn: Same as Poicile.

POECILITIC
Poe`ci*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Geol.)
(a) Mottled with various colors; variegated; spotted; -- said of
certain rocks.
(b) Specifically: Of or pertaining to, or characterizing, Triassic
and Permian sandstones of red and other colors. [Also written
poikilitic.]

POECILOPOD
Poe*cil"o*pod, n. Etym: [Cf. F. poecilopode.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Poecilopoda. Also used adjectively.

POECILOPODA
Poe`ci*lop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Originally, an artificial group including many parasitic
Entomostraca, together with the horseshoe crabs (Limuloidea).
(b) By some recent writers applied to the Merostomata.

POEM
Po"em, n. Etym: [L. poëma, Gr. poëme.]

1. A metrical composition; a composition in verse written in certain
measures, whether in blank verse or in rhyme, and characterized by
imagination and poetic diction; -- contradistinguished from prose;
as, the poems of Homer or of Milton.

2. A composition, not in verse, of which the language is highly
imaginative or impassioned; as, a prose poem; the poems of Ossian.

POEMATIC
Po`em*at"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a poem, or to poetry; poetical. [R.] Coleridge.

POENAMU
Po*e"na*mu, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of jade or nephrite, -- used in New Zealand for the
manufacture of axes and weapons.

POENOLOGY
Poe*nol"o*gy, n.

Defn: See Penology.

POEPHAGA
Po*eph"a*ga, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of herbivorous marsupials including the kangaroos and
their allies.
 -- Po*eph"a*gous, a.

POESY
Po"e*sy, n. Etym: [F. poésie (cf. It. poesia), L. poesis, from Gr.
Posy.]

1. The art of composing poems; poetical skill or faculty; as, the
heavenly gift of poesy. Shak.

2. Poetry; metrical composition; poems.
Music and poesy used to quicken you. Shak.

3. A short conceit or motto engraved on a ring or other thing; a
posy. Bacon.

POET
Po"et, n. Etym: [F. poëte, L. poëta, fr. Gr. Poem.]

Defn: One skilled in making poetry; one who has a particular genius
for metrical composition; the author of a poem; an imaginative
thinker or writer.
The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to
earth, from earth to heaven. Shak.
A poet is a maker, as the word signifies. Dryden.
Poet laureate. See under Laureate.

POETASTER
Po"et*as`ter, n.

Defn: An inferior rhymer, or writer of verses; a dabbler in poetic
art.
The talk of forgotten poetasters. Macaulay.

POETASTRY
Po"et*as`try, n.

Defn: The works of a poetaster. [R.]

POETESS
Po"et*ess, n. Etym: [Cf. F. poétesse.]

Defn: A female poet.

POETIC; POETICAL
Po*et"ic, Po*et"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. poëticus, Gr. poétiquee.]

1. Of or pertaining to poetry; suitable for poetry, or for writing
poetry; as, poetic talent, theme, work, sentiments. Shak.

2. Expressed in metrical form; exhibiting the imaginative or the
rhythmical quality of poetry; as, a poetical composition; poetical
prose. Poetic license. See License, n., 4.

POETICALLY
Po*et"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a poetic manner.

POETICS
Po*et"ics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. poétique, L. poëtica, poëtice, Gr.

Defn: The principles and rules of the art of poetry. J. Warton.

POETICULE
Po*et"i*cule, n.

Defn: A poetaster. Swinburne.

POETIZE
Po"et*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Poetized; p. pr. & vb. n. Poetizing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. poétiser.]

Defn: To write as a poet; to compose verse; to idealize.
I versify the truth, not poetize. Donne.

POETRY
Po"et*ry, n. Etym: [OF. poeterie. See Poet.]

1. The art of apprehending and interpreting ideas by the faculty of
imagination; the art of idealizing in thought and in expression.
For poetry is the blossom and the fragrance of all human knowledge,
human thoughts, human passions, emotions, language. Coleridge.

2. Imaginative language or composition, whether expressed
rhythmically or in prose. Specifically: Metrical composition; verse;
rhyme; poems collectively; as, heroic poetry; dramatic poetry; lyric
or Pindaric poetry. "The planetlike music of poetry." Sir P. Sidney.
She taketh most delight In music, instruments, and poetry. Shak.

POETS' CORNER
Po"ets' Cor"ner.

Defn: An angle in the south transept of Westminster Abbey, London; --
so called because it contains the tombs of Chaucer, Spenser, Dryden,
Ben Jonson, Gray, Tennyson, Browning, and other English poets, and
memorials to many buried elsewhere.

POETSHIP
Po"et*ship, n.

Defn: The state or personality of a poet. [R.]

POGAMOGGAN
Pog`a*mog"gan, n. [North Amer. Indian.]

Defn: An aboriginal weapon consisting of a stone or piece of antler
fastened to the end of a slender wooden handle, used by American
Indians from the Great Plains to the Mackenzie River.

POGGY
Pog"gy, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) See Porgy.
(b) A small whale.

POGY
Po"gy, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The menhaden.

Note: Pogy is often confounded with porgy, and therefore incorrectly
applied to various fishes.

POH
Poh, interj.

Defn: An exclamation expressing contempt or disgust; bah !

POHAGEN
Po*ha"gen, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Pauhaugen.

POI
Po"i, n.

Defn: A national food of the Hawaiians, made by baking and pounding
the kalo (or taro) root, and reducing it to a thin paste, which is
allowed to ferment.

POICILE; POECILE
Poi"ci*le, or; Poe"ci*le, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. poecile.]

Defn: The frescoed porch or gallery in Athens where Zeno taught. R.
Browning.

POIGNANCY
Poign"an*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being poignant; as, the poignancy of
satire; the poignancy of grief. Swift.

POIGNANT
Poign"ant, a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of poindre to sting, fr. L. pungere
to prick, sting. See Pungent.]

1. Pricking; piercing; sharp; pungent. "His poignant spear." Spenser.
"Poynaunt sauce." Chaucer.

2. Fig.: Pointed; keen; satirical.
His wit . . . became more lively and poignant. Sir W. Scott.

POIGNANTLY
Poign"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a poignant manner.

POIKILITIC
Poi`ki*lit"ic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: See Poecilitic.

POIKILOCYTE
Poi"ki*lo*cyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: An irregular form of corpuscle found in the blood in cases of
profound anæmia, probably a degenerated red blood corpuscle.

POIKILOTHERMAL; POIKILOTHERMIC
Poi`ki*lo*ther"mal, Poi`ki*lo*ther"mic, a. Etym: [Gr. thermal,
thermic.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Having a varying body temperature. See Homoiothermal.

POIKILOTHERMOUS
Poi`ki*lo*ther"mous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Poikilothermal.

POINCIANA
Poin`ci*a"na, n. Etym: [NL. Named after M. de Poinci, a governor of
the French West Indies.] (Bot.)

Defn: A prickly tropical shrub (Cæsalpinia, formerly Poinciana,
pulcherrima), with bipinnate leaves, and racemes of showy orange-red
flowers with long crimson filaments.

Note: The genus Poinciana is kept up for three trees of Eastern
Africa, the Mascarene Islands, and India.

POIND
Poind, v. t. Etym: [See Pound to confine.]

1. To impound, as cattle. [Obs. or Scot.] Flavel.

2. To distrain. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

POINDER
Poind"er, n.

1. The keeper of a cattle pound; a pinder. [Obs. or Scot.] T. Adams.

2. One who distrains property. [Scot.] Jamieson.

POINSETTIA
Poin*set"ti*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named after Joel R. Poinsett of South
Carolina.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Mexican shrub (Euphorbia pulcherrima) with very large and
conspicuous vermilion bracts below the yellowish flowers.

POINT
Point, v. t. & i.

Defn: To appoint. [Obs.] Spenser.

POINT
Point, n. Etym: [F. point, and probably also pointe, L. punctum,
puncta, fr. pungere, punctum, to prick. See Pungent, and cf. Puncto,
Puncture.]

1. That which pricks or pierces; the sharp end of anything, esp. the
sharp end of a piercing instrument, as a needle or a pin.

2. An instrument which pricks or pierces, as a sort of needle used by
engravers, etchers, lace workers, and others; also, a pointed cutting
tool, as a stone cutter's point; -- called also pointer.

3. Anything which tapers to a sharp, well-defined termination.
Specifically: A small promontory or cape; a tract of land extending
into the water beyond the common shore line.

4. The mark made by the end of a sharp, piercing instrument, as a
needle; a prick.

5. An indefinitely small space; a mere spot indicated or supposed.
Specifically: (Geom.) That which has neither parts nor magnitude;
that which has position, but has neither length, breadth, nor
thickness, -- sometimes conceived of as the limit of a line; that by
the motion of which a line is conceived to be produced.

6. An indivisible portion of time; a moment; an instant; hence, the
verge.
When time's first point begun Made he all souls. Sir J. Davies.

7. A mark of punctuation; a character used to mark the divisions of a
composition, or the pauses to be observed in reading, or to point off
groups of figures, etc.; a stop, as a comma, a semicolon, and esp. a
period; hence, figuratively, an end, or conclusion.
And there a point, for ended is my tale. Chaucer.
Commas and points they set exactly right. Pope.

8. Whatever serves to mark progress, rank, or relative position, or
to indicate a transition from one state or position to another,
degree; step; stage; hence, position or condition attained; as, a
point of elevation, or of depression; the stock fell off five points;
he won by tenpoints. "A point of precedence." Selden. "Creeping on
from point to point." Tennyson.
A lord full fat and in good point. Chaucer.

9. That which arrests attention, or indicates qualities or character;
a salient feature; a characteristic; a peculiarity; hence, a
particular; an item; a detail; as, the good or bad points of a man, a
horse, a book, a story, etc.
He told him, point for point, in short and plain. Chaucer.
In point of religion and in point of honor. Bacon.
Shalt thou dispute With Him the points of liberty Milton.

10. Hence, the most prominent or important feature, as of an
argument, discourse, etc.; the essential matter; esp., the
proposition to be established; as, the point of an anecdote. "Here
lies the point." Shak.
They will hardly prove his point. Arbuthnot.

11. A small matter; a trifle; a least consideration; a punctilio.
This fellow doth not stand upon points. Shak.
[He] cared not for God or man a point. Spenser.

12. (Mus.)

Defn: A dot or mark used to designate certain tones or time; as:
(a) (Anc. Mus.) A dot or mark distinguishing or characterizing
certain tones or styles; as, points of perfection, of augmentation,
etc.; hence, a note; a tune. "Sound the trumpet -- not a levant, or a
flourish, but a point of war." Sir W. Scott.
(b) (Mod. Mus.) A dot placed at the right hand of a note, to raise
its value, or prolong its time, by one half, as to make a whole note
equal to three half notes, a half note equal to three quarter notes.

13. (Astron.)

Defn: A fixed conventional place for reference, or zero of reckoning,
in the heavens, usually the intersection of two or more great circles
of the sphere, and named specifically in each case according to the
position intended; as, the equinoctial points; the solstitial points;
the nodal points; vertical points, etc. See Equinoctial Nodal.

14. (Her.)

Defn: One of the several different parts of the escutcheon. See
Escutcheon.

15. (Naut.)
(a) One of the points of the compass (see Points of the compass,
below); also, the difference between two points of the compass; as,
to fall off a point.
(b) A short piece of cordage used in reefing sails. See Reef point,
under Reef.

16. (Anc. Costume)

Defn: A a string or lace used to tie together certain parts of the
dress. Sir W. Scott.

17. Lace wrought the needle; as, point de Venise; Brussels point. See
Point lace, below.

18. pl. (Railways)

Defn: A switch. [Eng.]

19. An item of private information; a hint; a tip; a pointer. [Cant,
U. S.]

20. (Cricket)

Defn: A fielder who is stationed on the off side, about twelve or
fifteen yards from, and a little in advance of, the batsman.

21. The attitude assumed by a pointer dog when he finds game; as, the
dog came to a point. See Pointer.

22. (Type Making)

Defn: A standard unit of measure for the size of type bodies, being
one twelfth of the thickness of pica type. See Point system of type,
under Type.

23. A tyne or snag of an antler.

24. One of the spaces on a backgammon board.

25. (Fencing)

Defn: A movement executed with the saber or foil; as, tierce point.

Note: The word point is a general term, much used in the sciences,
particularly in mathematics, mechanics, perspective, and physics, but
generally either in the geometrical sense, or in that of degree, or
condition of change, and with some accompanying descriptive or
qualifying term, under which, in the vocabulary, the specific uses
are explained; as, boiling point, carbon point, dry point, freezing
point, melting point, vanishing point, etc. At all points, in every
particular, completely; perfectly. Shak.
 -- At point, In point, At, In, or On, the point, as near as can be;
on the verge; about (see About, prep., 6); as, at the point of death;
he was on the point of speaking. "In point to fall down." Chaucer.
"Caius Sidius Geta, at point to have been taken, recovered himself so
valiantly as brought day on his side." Milton.
 -- Dead point. (Mach.) Same as Dead center, under Dead.
 -- Far point (Med.), in ophthalmology, the farthest point at which
objects are seen distinctly. In normal eyes the nearest point at
which objects are seen distinctly; either with the two eyes together
(binocular near point), or with each eye separately (monocular near
point).
 -- Nine points of the law, all but the tenth point; the greater
weight of authority.
 -- On the point. See At point, above.
 -- Point lace, lace wrought with the needle, as distinguished from
that made on the pillow.
 -- Point net, a machine-made lace imitating a kind of Brussels lace
(Brussels ground).
 -- Point of concurrence (Geom.), a point common to two lines, but
not a point of tangency or of intersection, as, for instance, that in
which a cycloid meets its base.
 -- Point of contrary flexure, a point at which a curve changes its
direction of curvature, or at which its convexity and concavity
change sides.
 -- Point of order, in parliamentary practice, a question of order or
propriety under the rules.
 -- Point of sight (Persp.), in a perspective drawing, the point
assumed as that occupied by the eye of the spectator.
 -- Point of view, the relative position from which anything is seen
or any subject is considered.
 -- Points of the compass (Naut.), the thirty-two points of division
of the compass card in the mariner's compass; the corresponding
points by which the circle of the horizon is supposed to be divided,
of which the four marking the directions of east, west, north, and
south, are called cardinal points, and the rest are named from their
respective directions, as N. by E., N. N. E., N. E. by N., N. E.,
etc. See Illust. under Compass.
 -- Point paper, paper pricked through so as to form a stencil for
transferring a design.
 -- Point system of type. See under Type.
 -- Singular point (Geom.), a point of a curve which possesses some
property not possessed by points in general on the curve, as a cusp,
a point of inflection, a node, etc.
 -- To carry one's point, to accomplish one's object, as in a
controversy.
 -- To make a point of, to attach special importance to.
 -- To make, or gain, a point, accomplish that which was proposed;
also, to make advance by a step, grade, or position.
 -- To mark, or score, a point, as in billiards, cricket, etc., to
note down, or to make, a successful hit, run, etc.
 -- To strain a point, to go beyond the proper limit or rule; to
stretch one's authority or conscience.
 -- Vowel point, in Hebrew, and certain other Eastern and ancient
languages, a mark placed above or below the consonant, or attached to
it, representing the vowel, or vocal sound, which precedes or follows
the consonant.

POINT
Point, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pointed; p. pr. & vb. n. Pointing.] Etym:
[Cf. F. pointer. See Point, n.]

1. To give a point to; to sharpen; to cut, forge, grind, or file to
an acute end; as, to point a dart, or a pencil. Used also
figuratively; as, to point a moral.

2. To direct toward an abject; to aim; as, to point a gun at a wolf,
or a cannon at a fort.

3. Hence, to direct the attention or notice of.
Whosoever should be guided through his battles by Minerva, and
pointed to every scene of them. Pope.

4. To supply with punctuation marks; to punctuate; as, to point a
composition.

5. To mark (as Hebrew) with vowel points.

6. To give particular prominence to; to designate in a special
manner; to indicate, as if by pointing; as, the error was pointed
out. Pope.
He points it, however, by no deviation from his straightforward
manner of speech. Dickens.

7. To indicate or discover by a fixed look, as game.

8. (Masonry)

Defn: To fill up and finish the joints of (a wall), by introducing
additional cement or mortar, and bringing it to a smooth surface.

9. (Stone Cutting)

Defn: To cut, as a surface, with a pointed tool. To point a rope
(Naut.), to taper and neatly finish off the end by interweaving the
nettles.
 -- To point a sail (Naut.), to affix points through the eyelet holes
of the reefs.
 -- To point off, to divide into periods or groups, or to separate,
by pointing, as figures.
 -- To point the yards (of a vessel) (Naut.), to brace them so that
the wind shall strike the sails obliquely. Totten.

POINT
Point (point), v. i.

1. To direct the point of something, as of a finger, for the purpose
of designating an object, and attracting attention to it; -- with at.
Now must the world point at poor Katharine. Shak.
Point at the tattered coat and ragged shoe. Dryden.

2. To indicate the presence of game by fixed and steady look, as
certain hunting dogs do.
He treads with caution, and he points with fear. Gay.

3. (Med.)

Defn: To approximate to the surface; to head; -- said of an abscess.
To point at, to treat with scorn or contempt by pointing or directing
attention to.
 -- To point well (Naut.), to sail close to the wind; -- said of a
vessel.

POINTAL
Point"al, n. Etym: [From Point: cf. F. pointal an upright wooden
prop, OF. pointille a prick or prickle.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The pistil of a plant.

2. A kind of pencil or style used with the tablets of the Middle
Ages. "A pair of tablets [i. e., tablets] . . . and a pointel."
Chaucer.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: See Poyntel. [Obs. or R.]

POINT ALPHABET
Point alphabet.

Defn: An alphabet for the blind with a system of raised points
corresponding to letters.

POINT APPLIQUE
Point appliqué.

Defn: Lace having a needle-made design applied to a net ground, this
ground often being machine-made.

POINT-BLANK
Point`-blank", n. Etym: [F. point point + blanc white.]

1. The white spot on a target, at which an arrow or other missile is
aimed. [Obs.] Jonson.

2. (Mil.)
(a) With all small arms, the second point in which the natural line
of sight, when horizontal, cuts the trajectory.
(b) With artillery, the point where the projectile first strikes the
horizontal plane on which the gun stands, the axis of the piece being
horizontal.

POINT-BLANK
Point`-blank", a.

1. Directed in a line toward the object aimed at; aimed directly
toward the mark.

2. Hence, direct; plain; unqualified; -- said of language; as, a
point-blank assertion. Point-blank range, the extent of the apparent
right line of a ball discharged.
 -- Point-blank shot, the shot of a gun pointed directly toward the
object to be hit.

POINT-BLANK
Point`-blank", adv.

Defn: In a point-blank manner.
To sin point-blank against God's word. Fuller.

POINT D'APPUI
Point` d'ap`pui". Etym: [F.] (Mil.)

Defn: See under Appui.

POINT-DEVICE; POINT-DEVISE
Point`-de*vice", Point`-de*vise", a. Etym: [OE. at point devis; at at
+ point point, condition + devis exact, careful, OF. devis fixed,
set. See Device.]

Defn: Uncommonly nice and exact; precise; particular.
You are rather point-devise in your accouterments. Shak.
Thus he grew up, in logic point-devise, Perfect in grammar, and in
rhetoric nice. Longfellow.

POINT-DEVICE; POINT-DEVISE
Point`-de*vice", Point`-de*vise", adv.

Defn: Exactly. [Obs.] Shak.

POINTED
Point"ed, a.

1. Sharp; having a sharp point; as, a pointed rock.

2. Characterized by sharpness, directness, or pithiness of
expression; terse; epigrammatic; especially, directed to a particular
person or thing.
His moral pleases, not his pointed wit. Pope.
Pointed arch (Arch.), an arch with a pointed crown.
 -- Pointed style (Arch.), a name given to that style of architecture
in which the pointed arch is the predominant feature; -- more
commonly called Gothic.
 -- Point"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Point"ed*ness, n.

POINTEL
Point"el, n. Etym: [From Point. Cf. Pointal.]

Defn: See Pointal.

POINTER
Point"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, points. Specifically:
(a) The hand of a timepiece.
(b) (Zoöl.) One of a breed of dogs trained to stop at scent of game,
and with the nose point it out to sportsmen. (c) pl. (Astron.)

Defn: The two stars (Merak and Dubhe) in the Great Bear, the line
between which points nearly in the direction of the north star. See
Illust. of Ursa Major. (b) pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Diagonal braces sometimes fixed across the hold.

POINTING
Point"ing, n.

1. The act of sharpening.

2. The act of designating, as a position or direction, by means of
something pointed, as a finger or a rod.

3. The act or art of punctuating; punctuation.

4. The act of filling and finishing the joints in masonry with
mortar, cement, etc.; also, the material so used.

5. The rubbing off of the point of the wheat grain in the first
process of high milling.

6. (Sculpt.)

Defn: The act or process of measuring, at the various distances from
the surface of a block of marble, the surface of a future piece of
statuary; also, a process used in cutting the statue from the
artist's model.

POINTINGSTOCK
Point`ing*stock`, n.

Defn: An object of ridicule or scorn; a laughingstock. Shak.

POINTLESS
Point"less, a.

Defn: Having no point; blunt; wanting keenness; obtuse; as, a
pointless sword; a pointless remark.

Syn.
 -- Blunt; obtuse, dull; stupid.

POINTLESSLY
Point"less*ly, adv.

Defn: Without point.

POINTLETED
Point"let*ed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a small, distinct point; apiculate. Henslow.

POINTREL
Poin"trel, n.

Defn: A graving tool. Knight.

POINTSMAN
Points"man, n.; pl. -men (-men).

Defn: A man who has charge of railroad points or switches. [Eng.]

POINT SWITCH
Point switch. (Railroads)

Defn: A switch made up of a rail from each track, both rails being
tapered far back and connected to throw alongside the through rail of
either track.

POISE
Poise, n. Etym: [OE. pois, peis, OF. pois, peis, F. poids, fr. L.
pensum a portion weighed out, pendere to weigh, weigh out. Cf.
Avoirdupois, Pendant, Poise, v.] [Formerly written also peise.]

1. Weight; gravity; that which causes a body to descend; heaviness.
"Weights of an extraordinary poise." Evelyn.

2. The weight, or mass of metal, used in weighing, to balance the
substance weighed.

3. The state of being balanced by equal weight or power; equipoise;
balance; equilibrium; rest. Bentley.

4. That which causes a balance; a counterweight.
Men of unbounded imagination often want the poise of judgment.
Dryden.

POISE
Poise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Poised, (; p. pr. & vb. n. Poising.] Etym:
[OE. poisen, peisen, OF. & F. peser, to weigh, balance, OF. il peise,
il poise, he weighs, F. il pèse, fr. L. pensare, v. intens. fr.
pendere to weigh. See Poise, n., and cf. Pensive.] [Formerly written
also peise.]

1. To balance; to make of equal weight; as, to poise the scales of a
balance.

2. To hold or place in equilibrium or equiponderance.
Nor yet was earth suspended in the sky; Nor poised, did on her own
foundation lie. Dryden.

3. To counterpoise; to counterbalance.
One scale of reason to poise another of sensuality. Shak.
To poise with solid sense a sprightly wit. Dryden.

4. To ascertain, as by the balance; to weigh.
He can not sincerely consider the strength, poise the weight, and
discern the evidence. South.

5. To weigh (down); to oppress. [Obs.]
Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow. Shak.

POISE
Poise, v. i.

Defn: To hang in equilibrium; to be balanced or suspended; hence, to
be in suspense or doubt.
The slender, graceful spars Poise aloft in air. Longfellow.

POISER
Pois"er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The balancer of dipterous insects.

POISON
Poi"son, n. Etym: [F. poison, in Old French also, a potion, fr. L.
potio a drink, draught, potion, a poisonous draught, fr. potare to
drink. See Potable, and cf. Potion.]

1. Any agent which, when introduced into the animal organism, is
capable of producing a morbid, noxious, or deadly effect upon it; as,
morphine is a deadly poison; the poison of pestilential diseases.

2. That which taints or destroys moral purity or health; as, the
poison of evil example; the poison of sin. Poison ash. (Bot.) (a) A
tree of the genus Amyris (A. balsamifera) found in the West Indies,
from the trunk of which a black liquor distills, supposed to have
poisonous qualities. (b) The poison sumac (Rhus venenata). [U. S.] --
Poison dogwood (Bot.), poison sumac.
 -- Poison fang (Zoöl.), one of the superior maxillary teeth of some
species of serpents, which, besides having the cavity for the pulp,
is either perforated or grooved by a longitudinal canal, at the lower
end of which the duct of the poison gland terminates. See Illust.
under Fang.
 -- Poison gland (Biol.), a gland, in animals or plants, which
secretes an acrid or venomous matter, that is conveyed along an organ
capable of inflicting a wound.
 -- Poison hemlock (Bot.), a poisonous umbelliferous plant (Conium
maculatum). See Hemlock.
 -- Poison ivy (Bot.), a poisonous climbing plant (Rhus
Toxicodendron) of North America. It is common on stone walls and on
the trunks of trees, and has trifoliate, rhombic-ovate, variously
notched leaves. Many people are poisoned by it, if they touch the
leaves. See Poison sumac. Called also poison oak, and mercury.
 -- Poison nut. (Bot.) (a) Nux vomica. (b) The tree which yields this
seed (Strychnos Nuxvomica). It is found on the Malabar and Coromandel
coasts.
 -- Poison oak (Bot.), the poison ivy; also, the more shrubby Rhus
diversiloba of California and Oregon. Poison sac. (Zoöl.) Same as
Poison gland, above. See Illust. under Fang.
 -- Poison sumac (Bot.), a poisonous shrub of the genus Rhus (R.
venenata); -- also called poison ash, poison dogwood, and poison
elder. It has pinnate leaves on graceful and slender common petioles,
and usually grows in swampy places. Both this plant and the poison
ivy (Rhus Toxicodendron) have clusters of smooth greenish white
berries, while the red-fruited species of this genus are harmless.
The tree (Rhus vernicifera) which yields the celebrated Japan lacquer
is almost identical with the poison sumac, and is also very
poisonous. The juice of the poison sumac also forms a lacquer similar
to that of Japan.

Syn.
 -- Venom; virus; bane; pest; malignity.
 -- Poison, Venom. Poison usually denotes something received into the
system by the mouth, breath, etc. Venom is something discharged from
animals and received by means of a wound, as by the bite or sting of
serpents, scorpions, etc. Hence, venom specifically implies some
malignity of nature or purpose.

POISON
Poi"son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Poisoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Poisoning.]
Etym: [Cf. OF. poisonner, F. empoissoner, L. potionare to give to
drink. See Poison, n.]

1. To put poison upon or into; to infect with poison; as, to poison
an arrow; to poison food or drink. "The ingredients of our poisoned
chalice." Shak.

2. To injure or kill by poison; to administer poison to.
If you poison us, do we not die Shak.

3. To taint; to corrupt; to vitiate; as, vice poisons happiness;
slander poisoned his mind.
Whispering tongues can poison truth. Coleridge.

POISON
Poi"son, v. i.

Defn: To act as, or convey, a poison.
Tooth that poisons if it bite. Shak.

POISONABLE
Poi"son*a*ble, a.

1. Capable of poisoning; poisonous. [Obs.] "Poisonable heresies."
Tooker.

2. Capable of being poisoned.

POISON BUSH
Poison bush. In Australia:
 (a) Any fabaceous shrub of the genus Gastrolobium, the herbage of
which is poisonous to stock; also, any species of several related
genera, as Oxylobium, Gompholobium, etc.
 (b) The plant Myoporum deserti, often distinguished as Ellangowan
poison bush or dogwood poison bush.
 (c) The ulmaceous plant Trema cannabina, which, though not
poisonous, is injurious to stock because of its large amount of
fiber.

POISON CUP
Poison cup.

1. A cup containing poison.

2.  A cup that was supposed to break on having poison put into it.

POISONER
Poi"son*er, n.

Defn: One who poisons. Shak.

POISONOUS
Poi"son*ous, a.

Defn: Having the qualities or effects of poison; venomous; baneful;
corrupting; noxious. Shak.
 -- Poi"son*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Poi"son*ous*ness, n.

POISONSOME
Poi"son*some, a.

Defn: Poisonous.[Obs.] Holland.

POISURE
Poi"sure, n. Etym: [See Poise.]

Defn: Weight. [Obs.]

POITREL
Poi"trel, n. Etym: [OE. poitrel, F. poitrail, fr. L. pectorale a
breastplate, fr. pectoralis, a. See Pectoral, a.] (Anc. Armor)

Defn: The breastplate of the armor of a horse. See Peytrel. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

POIZE
Poize, n.

Defn: See Poise. [Obs.]

POKAL
Po*kal", n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: A tall drinking cup.

POKE
Poke, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A large North American herb of the genus Phytolacca (P.
decandra), bearing dark purple juicy berries; -- called also garget,
pigeon berry, pocan, and pokeweed. The root and berries have emetic
and purgative properties, and are used in medicine. The young shoots
are sometimes eaten as a substitute for asparagus, and the berries
are said to be used in Europe to color wine.

POKE
Poke, n. Etym: [AS. poca, poha, pohha; akin to Icel. poki, OD. poke,
and perh. to E. pock; cf. also Gael.poca, and OF. poque. Cf. Pock,
Pocket, Pouch.]

1. A bag; a sack; a pocket. "He drew a dial from his poke." Shak.
They wallowed as pigs in a poke. Chaucer.

2. A long, wide sleeve; -- called also poke sleeve. To boy a pig a
poke (that is, in a bag), to buy a thing without knowledge or
examination of it. Camden.

POKE
Poke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Poked; p. pr. & vb. n. Poking.] Etym: [Cf.
LG. poken to prick, pierce, thrust, pok a dagger, knife, D. pook, G.
pocken to beat, also Ir. poc a blow, Gael. puc to push.]

1. To thrust or push against or into with anything pointed; hence, to
stir up; to excite; as, to poke a fire.
He poked John, and said "Sleepest thou " Chaucer.

2. To thrust with the horns; to gore.

3. Etym: [From 5th Poke, 3.]

Defn: To put a poke on; as, to poke an ox. [Colloq. U. S.] To poke
fun, to excite fun; to joke; to jest. [Colloq.] -- To poke fun at, to
make a butt of; to ridicule. [Colloq.]

POKE
Poke, v. i.

Defn: To search; to feel one's way, as in the dark; to grope; as, to
poke about.
A man must have poked into Latin and Greek. Prior.

POKE
Poke, n.

1. The act of poking; a thrust; a jog; as, a poke in the ribs. Ld.
Lytton.

2. A lazy person; a dawdler; also, a stupid or uninteresting person.
[Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.

3. A contrivance to prevent an animal from leaping or breaking
through fences. It consists of a yoke with a pole inserted, pointed
forward. [U.S.] Poke bonnet, a bonnet with a straight, projecting
front.

POKEBAG
Poke"bag`, n. Etym: [So called in allusion to its baglike nest.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The European long-tailed titmouse; -- called also poke-pudding.
[Prov. Eng.]

POKER
Pok"er, n. Etym: [From Poke to push.]

1. One who pokes.

2. That which pokes or is used in poking, especially a metal bar or
rod used in stirring a fire of coals.

3. A poking-stick. Decker.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The poachard. [Prov. Eng.] Poker picture, a picture formed in
imitation of bisterwashed drawings, by singeing the surface of wood
with a heated poker or other iron. Fairholt.

POKER
Pok"er, n. Etym: [Of uncertain etymol.]

Defn: A game at cards derived from brag, and first played about 1835
in the Southwestern United States. Johnson's Cyc.

Note: A poker hand is played with a poker deck, composed of fifty-two
cards, of thirteeen values, each card value being represented once in
each of four "suits", namely spades, hearts, diamonds, and clubs. The
game is played in many variations, but almost invariably the stage of
decision as to who wins occurs when each player has five cards (or
chooses five cards from some larger number available to him). The
winner usually is the player with the highest-valued hand, but, in
some variations, the winner may be the player with the lowest-valued
hand. The value of a hand is ranked by hand types, representing the
relationships of the cards to each other. [The hand types are ranked
by the probability of receiving such a hand when dealt five cards.]
Within each hand type the value is also ranked by the values of the
cards. The hand types are labeled, in decreasing value: five of a
kind; royal flush; straight flush; four of a kind; full house (coll.
full boat, or boat); flush; straight; three of a kind; two pairs; one
pair; and, when the contending players have no hands of any of the
above types, the player with the highest-valued card wins -- if there
is a tie, the next-highest-valued card of the tied players determines
the winner, and so on. If two players have the same type of hand, the
value of the cards within each type determines the winner; thus, if
two players both have three of a kind (and no other player has a
higher type of hand), the player whose three matched cards have the
highest card value is the winner.

POKER
Pok"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. pokker the deuce, devil, also W. pwci, a
hobgoblin, bugbear, and E. puck.]

Defn: Any imagined frightful object, especially one supposed to haunt
the darkness; a bugbear. [Colloq. U. S.]

POKER DICE
Poker dice.

Defn: A game played with five dice in which the count is usually
made, in order, by pairs, two pairs, three of a kind, full houses,
four of a kind, and five of a kind (the highest throw), similar to
poker; also, the dice used in this game, esp. when marked with the
ace, king, queen, jack, ten, and nine instead of the usual digits.

POKERISH
Pok"er*ish, a.

Defn: Infested by pokers; adapted to excite fear; as, a pokerish
place. [Colloq. U. S.]
There is something pokerish about a deserted dwelling. Lowell.

POKERISH
Pok"er*ish, a.

Defn: Stiff like a poker. [Colloq.]

POKET
Pok"et, n.

Defn: A pocket. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POKEWEED
Poke"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Poke, the plant.

POKEY
Pok"ey, a.

Defn: See Poky.

POKING
Pok"ing, a.

Defn: Drudging; servile. [Colloq.]
Bred to some poking profession. Gray.

POKING-STICK
Pok"ing-stick`, n.

Defn: A small stick or rod of steel, formerly used in adjusting the
plaits of ruffs. Shak.

POKY
Pok"y, a. Etym: [Written also pokey.]

1. Confined; cramped. [Prov. Eng.]

2. Dull; tedious; uninteresting. [Colloq.]

POLACCA
Po*lac"ca, n. Etym: [It. polacca, polaccra, polacra; cf. F. polaque,
polacre, Sp. polacre,] [Written also polacre.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel with two or three masts, used in the Mediterranean.
The masts are usually of one piece, and without tops, caps, or
crosstrees.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: See Polonaise.

POLACK
Po"lack, n.

Defn: A Polander. Shak.

POLACRE
Po*la"cre, n.

Defn: Same as Polacca, 1.

POLANDER
Po"land*er, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Pole.

POLAR
Po"lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. polaire. See Pole of the earth.]

1. Of or pertaining to one of the poles of the earth, or of a sphere;
situated near, or proceeding from, one of the poles; as, polar
regions; polar seas; polar winds.

2. Of or pertaining to the magnetic pole, or to the point to which
the magnetic needle is directed.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: Pertaining to, reckoned from, or having a common radiating
point; as, polar coördinates. Polar axis, that axis of an
astronomical instrument, as an equatorial, which is parallel to the
earths axis.
 -- Polar bear (Zoöl.), a large bear (Ursus, or Thalarctos,
maritimus) inhabiting the arctic regions. It sometimes measures
nearly nine feet in length and weighs 1,600 pounds. It is partially
amphibious, very powerful, and the most carnivorous of all the bears.
The fur is white, tinged with yellow. Called also White bear. See
Bear.
 -- Polar body, cell, or globule (Biol.), a minute cell which
separates by karyokinesis from the ovum during its maturation. In the
maturation of ordinary ova two polar bodies are formed, but in
parthogenetic ova only one. The first polar body formed is usually
larger than the second one, and often divides into two after its
separation from the ovum. Each of the polar bodies removes maternal
chromatin from the ovum to make room for the chromatin of the
fertilizing spermatozoön; but their functions are not fully
understood.
 -- Polar circles (Astron. & Geog.), two circles, each at a distance
from a pole of the earth equal to the obliquity of the ecliptic, or
about 23º 28', the northern called the arctic circle, and the
southern the antarctic circle.
 -- Polar clock, a tube, containing a polarizing apparatus, turning
on an axis parallel to that of the earth, and indicating the hour of
the day on an hour circle, by being turned toward the plane of
maximum polarization of the light of the sky, which is always 90º
from the sun.
 -- Polar coördinates. See under 3d Coördinate.
 -- Polar dial, a dial whose plane is parallel to a great circle
passing through the poles of the earth. Math. Dict.
 -- Polar distance, the angular distance of any point on a sphere
from one of its poles, particularly of a heavenly body from the north
pole of the heavens.
 -- Polar equation of a line or surface, an equation which expresses
the relation between the polar coördinates of every point of the line
or surface.
 -- Polar forces (Physics), forces that are developed and act in
pairs, with opposite tendencies or properties in the two elements, as
magnetism, electricity, etc.
 -- Polar hare (Zoöl.), a large hare of Arctic America (Lepus
arcticus), which turns pure white in winter. It is probably a variety
of the common European hare (L. timidus).
 -- Polar lights, the aurora borealis or australis.
 -- Polar, or Polaric, opposition or contrast (Logic), an opposition
or contrast made by the existence of two opposite conceptions which
are the extremes in a species, as white and black in colors; hence,
as great an opposition or contrast as possible.
 -- Polar projection. See under Projection.
 -- Polar spherical triangle (Spherics), a spherical triangle whose
three angular points are poles of the sides of a given triangle. See
4th Pole, 2.
 -- Polar whale (Zoöl.), the right whale, or bowhead. See Whale.

POLAR
Po"lar, n. (Conic Sections)

Defn: The right line drawn through the two points of contact of the
two tangents drawn from a given point to a given conic section. The
given point is called the pole of the line. If the given point lies
within the curve so that the two tangents become imaginary, there is
still a real polar line which does not meet the curve, but which
possesses other properties of the polar. Thus the focus and directrix
are pole and polar. There are also poles and polar curves to curves
of higher degree than the second, and poles and polar planes to
surfaces of the second degree.

POLARCHY
Pol"ar*chy, n.

Defn: See Polyarchy.

POLARIC
Po*lar"ic, a.

Defn: See Polar. [R.]

POLARILY
Po"lar*i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a polary manner; with polarity. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

POLARIMETER
Po`lar*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [Polar + -meter.] (Opt.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the amount of polarization of
light, or the proportion of polarized light, in a partially polarized
ray.

POLARIMETRY
Po`lar*im"e*try, n. (Opt.)

Defn: The art or process of measuring the polarization of light.

POLARIS
Po*la"ris, n. Etym: [NL. See Polar.] (Astron.)

Defn: The polestar. See North star, under North.

POLARISCOPE
Po*lar"i*scope, n. Etym: [Polar + -scope.] (Opt.)

Defn: An instrument consisting essentially of a polarizer and an
analyzer, used for polarizing light, and analyzing its properties.

POLARISCOPIC
Po*lar`i*scop"ic, a. (Opt.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the polariscope; obtained by the use of a
polariscope; as, polariscopic observations.

POLARISCOPY
Po`lar*is"co*py, n. (Opt.)

Defn: The art or rocess of making observations with the polariscope.

POLARISTIC
Po`lar*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or exhibiting, poles; having a polar arrangement
or disposition; arising from, or dependent upon, the possession of
poles or polar characteristics; as, polaristic antagonism.

POLARITY
Po*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. polarité.]

1. (Physics)

Defn: That quality or condition of a body in virtue of which it
exhibits opposite, or contrasted, properties or powers, in opposite,
or contrasted, parts or directions; or a condition giving rise to a
contrast of properties corresponding to a contrast of positions, as,
for example, attraction and repulsion in the opposite parts of a
magnet, the dissimilar phenomena corresponding to the different sides
of a polarized ray of light, etc.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A property of the conic sections by virtue of which a given
point determines a corresponding right line and a given right line
determines a corresponding point. See Polar, n.

POLARIZABLE
Po"lar*i`za*ble, a.

Defn: Susceptible of polarization.

POLARIZATION
Po`lar*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. polarisation.]

1. The act of polarizing; the state of being polarized, or of having
polarity.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: A peculiar affection or condition of the rays of light or heat,
in consequence of which they exhibit different properties in
different directions.

Note: If a beam of light, which has been reflected from a plate of
unsilvered glass at an angle of about 56°, be received upon a second
plate of glass similar to the former, and at the same angle of
incidence, the light will be readily reflected when the two planes of
incidence are parallel to each other, but will not be reflected when
the two planes of incidence are perpendicular to each other. The
light has, therefore, acquired new properties by reflection from the
first plate of glass, and is called polarized light, while the
modification which the light has experienced by this reflection is
called polarization. The plane in which the beam of light is
reflected from the first mirror is called the plane of polarization.
The angle of polarization is the angle at which a beam of light must
be reflected, in order that the polarization may be the most
complete. The term polarization was derived from the theory of
emission, and it was conceived that each luminous molecule has two
poles analogous to the poles of a magnet; but this view is not now
held. According to the undulatory theory, ordinary light is produced
by vibrations transverse or perpendicular to the direction of the
ray, and distributed as to show no distinction as to any particular
direction. But when, by any means, these, vibrations are made to take
place in one plane, the light is said to be plane polarized. If only
a portion of the vibrations lie in one plane the ray is said to be
partially polarized. Light may be polarized by several methods other
than by reflection, as by refraction through most crystalline media,
or by being transmitted obliquely through several plates of glass
with parallel faces. If a beam of polarized light be transmitted
through a crystal of quartz in the direction of its axis, the plane
of polarization will be changed by an angle proportional to the
thickness of the crystal. This phenomenon is called rotatory
polarization. A beam of light reflected from a metallic surface, or
from glass surfaces under certain peculiar conditions, acquires
properties still more complex, its vibrations being no longer
rectilinear, but circular, or elliptical. This phenomenon is called
circular or elliptical polarization.

3. (Elec.)

Defn: An effect produced upon the plates of a voltaic battery, or the
electrodes in an electrolytic cell, by the deposition upon them of
the gases liberated by the action of the current. It is chiefly due
to the hydrogen, and results in an increase of the resistance, and
the setting up of an opposing electro-motive force, both of which
tend materially to weaken the current of the battery, or that passing
through the cell.

POLARIZE
Po"lar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Polarized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Polarizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. polariser.]

Defn: To communicate polarity to.

POLARIZER
Po"lar*i`zer, n. (Physics)

Defn: That which polarizes; especially, the part of a polariscope
which receives and polarizes the light. It is usually a reflecting
plate, or a plate of some crystal, as tourmaline, or a doubly
refracting crystal.

POLARY
Po"lar*y, a.

Defn: Tending to a pole; having a direction toward a pole. [R.] Sir
T. Browne.

POLATOUCHE
Po`la`touche", n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A flying squirrel (Sciuropterus volans) native of Northern
Europe and Siberia; -- called also minene.

POLDER
Pol"der, n. Etym: [D.]

Defn: A tract of low land reclaimed from the sea by of high
embankments. [Holland & Belgium]

POLDWAY
Pold"way`, n. Etym: [Cf. Poledavy.]

Defn: A kind of coarse bagging, -- used for coal sacks. Weale.

POLE
Pole, n. Etym: [Cf. G. Pole a Pole, Polen Poland.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Polander.

POLE
Pole, n. Etym: [As. pal, L. palus, akin to pangere to make fast. Cf.
Pale a stake, Pact.]

1. A long, slender piece of wood; a tall, slender piece of timber;
the stem of a small tree whose branches have been removed; as,
specifically: (a) A carriage pole, a wooden bar extending from the
front axle of a carriage between the wheel horses, by which the
carriage is guided and held back. (b) A flag pole, a pole on which a
flag is supported. (c) A Maypole. See Maypole. (d) A barber's pole, a
pole painted in stripes, used as a sign by barbers and hairdressers.
(e) A pole on which climbing beans, hops, or other vines, are
trained.

2. A measuring stick; also, a measure of length equal to 5 Bacon.
Pole bean (Bot.), any kind of bean which is customarily trained on
poles, as the scarlet runner or the Lima bean.
 -- Pole flounder (Zoöl.), a large deep-water flounder
(Glyptocephalus cynoglossus), native of the northern coasts of Europe
and America, and much esteemed as a food fish; -- called also craig
flounder, and pole fluke.
 -- Pole lathe, a simple form of lathe, or a substitute for a lathe,
in which the work is turned by means of a cord passing around it, one
end being fastened to the treadle, and the other to an elastic pole
above.
 -- Pole mast (Naut.), a mast formed from a single piece or from a
single tree.
 -- Pole of a lens (Opt.), the point where the principal axis meets
the surface.
 -- Pole plate (Arch.), a horizontal timber resting on the tiebeams
of a roof and receiving the ends of the rafters. It differs from the
plate in not resting on the wall.

POLE
Pole, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Poled; p. pr. & vb. n. Poling.]

1. To furnish with poles for support; as, to pole beans or hops.

2. To convey on poles; as, to pole hay into a barn.

3. To impel by a pole or poles, as a boat.

4. To stir, as molten glass, with a pole.

POLE
Pole, n. Etym: [L. polus, Gr. pôle.]

1. Either extremity of an axis of a sphere; especially, one of the
extremities of the earth's axis; as, the north pole.

2. (Spherics)

Defn: A point upon the surface of a sphere equally distant from every
part of the circumference of a great circle; or the point in which a
diameter of the sphere perpendicular to the plane of such circle
meets the surface. Such a point is called the pole of that circle;
as, the pole of the horizon; the pole of the ecliptic; the pole of a
given meridian.

3. (Physics)

Defn: One of the opposite or contrasted parts or directions in which
a polar force is manifested; a point of maximum intensity of a force
which has two such points, or which has polarity; as, the poles of a
magnet; the north pole of a needle.

4. The firmament; the sky. [Poetic]
Shoots against the dusky pole. Milton.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: See Polarity, and Polar, n. Magnetic pole. See under Magnetic.
 -- Poles of the earth, or Terrestrial poles (Geog.), the two
opposite points on the earth's surface through which its axis passes.
 -- Poles of the heavens, or Celestial poles, the two opposite points
in the celestial sphere which coincide with the earth's axis
produced, and about which the heavens appear to revolve.

POLEAX; POLEAXE
Pole"ax`, Pole"axe`, n. Etym: [OE. pollax; cf. OD. pollexe. See Poll
head, and Ax.]

Defn: Anciently, a kind of battle-ax with a long handle; later, an ax
or hatchet with a short handle, and a head variously patterned; --
used by soldiers, and also by sailors in boarding a vessel.

POLECAT
Pole"cat`, n. Etym: [Probably fr. F. poule hen, and originally, a
poultry cat, because it feeds on poultry. See Poultry.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A small European carnivore of the Weasel family (Putorius
foetidus). Its scent glands secrete a substance of an exceedingly
disagreeable odor. Called also fitchet, foulmart, and European
ferret.
(b) The zorilla. The name is also applied to other allied species.

POLEDAVY
Pole"da`vy, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain.]

Defn: A sort of coarse canvas; poldway. [Obs.] Howell.

POLELESS
Pole"less, a.

Defn: Without a pole; as, a poleless chariot.

POLEMARCH
Pol"e*march, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: In Athens, originally, the military commanderin-chief; but,
afterward, a civil magistrate who had jurisdiction in respect of
strangers and sojourners. In other Grecian cities, a high military
and civil officer.

POLEMIC
Po*lem"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. polémique.]

1. Of or pertaining to controversy; maintaining, or involving,
controversy; controversial; disputative; as, a polemic discourse or
essay; polemic theology.

2. Engaged in, or addicted to, polemics, or to controversy;
disputations; as, a polemic writer. South.

POLEMIC
Po*lem"ic, n.

1. One who writes in support of one opinion, doctrine, or system, in
opposition to another; one skilled in polemics; a controversialist; a
disputant.
The sarcasms and invectives of the young polemic. Macaulay.

2. A polemic argument or controversy.

POLEMICAL
Po*lem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Polemic; controversial; disputatious.
 -- Po*lem"ic*al*ly, adv.
Polemical and impertinent disputations. Jer. Taylor.

POLEMICIST
Po*lem"i*cist, n.

Defn: A polemic. [R.]

POLEMICS
Po*lem"ics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. polémique.]

Defn: The art or practice of disputation or controversy, especially
on religious subjects; that branch of theological science which
pertains to the history or conduct of ecclesiastical controversy.

POLEMIST
Pol"e*mist, n.

Defn: A polemic. [R.]

POLEMONIACEOUS
Pol`e*mo`ni*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polemoniaceæ),
which includes Polemonium, Phlox, Gilia, and a few other genera.

POLEMONIUM
Pol`e*mo"ni*um. n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of gamopetalous perennial herbs, including the Jacob's
ladder and the Greek valerian.

POLEMOSCOPE
Po*lem"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope: cf. F. polémoscope.]

Defn: An opera glass or field glass with an oblique mirror arranged
for seeing objects do not lie directly before the eye; -- called also
diagonal, or side, opera glass.

POLEMY
Pol"e*my, n. Etym: [See Polemic.]

Defn: Warfare; war; hence, contention; opposition. [Obs.]

POLENTA
Po*len"ta, n. Etym: [It., fr. L. polenta peeled barley.]

Defn: Pudding made of Indian meal; also, porridge made of chestnut
meal. [Italy]

POLER
Pol"er, n.

Defn: One who poles.

POLER
Pol"er, n.

Defn: An extortioner. See Poller. [Obs.] Bacon.

POLESTAR
Pole"star`, n.

1. Polaris, or the north star. See North star, under North.

2. A guide or director.

POLEWARDS
Pole"wards, adv.

Defn: Toward a pole of the earth. "The regions further polewards."
Whewell.

POLEWIG
Pole"wig, n. Etym: [Cf. Polliwig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European spotted goby (Gobius minutus); -- called also
pollybait. [Prov. Eng.]

POLEY
Po"ley, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Poly.

POLEY
Po"ley, a.

Defn: Without horns; polled. [Prov. Eng.] "That poley heifer." H.
Kingsley.

POLIANITE
Po"li*a*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Manganese dioxide, occurring in tetragonal crystals nearly as
hard as quartz.

POLICATE
Pol"i*cate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Pollicate.

POLICE
Po*lice", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. politia the condition of a state,
government, administration, Gr. pur, puri. Cf. Policy polity,
Polity.]

1. A judicial and executive system, for the government of a city,
town, or district, for the preservation of rights, order,
cleanliness, health, etc., and for the enforcement of the laws and
prevention of crime; the administration of the laws and regulations
of a city, incorporated town, or borough.

2. That which concerns the order of the community; the internal
regulation of a state.

3. The organized body of civil officers in a city, town, or district,
whose particular duties are the preservation of good order, the
prevention and detection of crime, and the enforcement of the laws.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: Military police, the body of soldiers detailed to preserve
civil order and attend to sanitary arrangements in a camp or
garrison.

5. The cleaning of a camp or garrison, or the state Police
commissioner, a civil officer, usually one of a board, commissioned
to regulate and control the appointment, duties, and discipline of
the police.
 -- Police constable, or Police officer, a policeman.
 -- Police court, a minor court to try persons brought before it by
the police.
 -- Police inspector, an officer of police ranking next below a
superintendent.
 -- Police jury, a body of officers who collectively exercise
jurisdiction in certain cases of police, as levying taxes, etc.; --
so called in Louisiana. Bouvier.
 -- Police justice, or Police magistrate, a judge of a police court.
 -- Police offenses (Law), minor offenses against the order of the
community, of which a police court may have final jurisdiction.
 -- Police station, the headquarters of the police, or of a section
of them; the place where the police assemble for orders, and to which
they take arrested persons.

POLICE
Po*lice", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Policed; p. pr. & vb. n. Policing.]

1. To keep in order by police.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: To make clean; as, to police a camp.

POLICED
Po*liced", a.

Defn: Regulated by laws for the maintenance of peace and order,
enforced by organized administration. "A policed kingdom." Howell.

POLICEMAN
Po*lice"man, n.; pl. Policemen (.

Defn: A member of a body of police; a constable.

POLICE POWER
Police power. (Law)

Defn: The inherent power of a government to regulate its police
affairs. The term police power is not definitely fixed in meaning. In
the earlier cases in the United States it was used as including the
whole power of internal government, or the powers of government
inherent in every sovereignty to the extent of its dominions (11
Peters (U. S.) 102). The later cases have excepted from its domain
the development and administration of private law. Modern political
science defines the power as a branch of internal administration in
the exercise of which the executive should move within the lines of
general principles prescribed by the constitution or the legislature,
and in the exercise of which the most local governmental
organizations should participate as far as possible (Burgess). Under
this limitation the police power, as affecting persons, is the power
of the state to protect the public against the abuse of individual
liberty, that is, to restrain the individual in the exercise of his
rights when such exercise becomes a danger to the community. The
tendency of judicial and popular usage is towards this narrower
definition.

POLICIAL
Po*li"cial (, a.

Defn: Relating to the police. [R.]

POLICIED
Pol"i*cied, a.

Defn: Policed. [Obs.] Bacon.

POLICY
Pol"i*cy, n.; pl. Policies. Etym: [L. politia, Gr. police, Of.
police. See Police, n.]

1. Civil polity. [Obs.]

2. The settled method by which the government and affairs of a nation
are, or may be, administered; a system of public or official
administration, as designed to promote the external or internal
prosperity of a state.

3. The method by which any institution is administered; system of
management; course.

4. Management or administration based on temporal or material
interest, rather than on principles of equity or honor; hence,
worldly wisdom; dexterity of management; cunning; stratagem.

5. Prudence or wisdom in the management of public and private
affairs; wisdom; sagacity; wit.
The very policy of a hostess, finding his purse so far above his
clothes, did detect him. Fuller.

6. Motive; object; inducement. [Obs.]
What policy have you to bestow a benefit where it is counted an
injury Sir P. Sidney.

Syn.
 -- See Polity.

POLICY
Pol"i*cy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Policied; p. pr. & vb. n. Policying.]

Defn: To regulate by laws; to reduce to order. [Obs.] "Policying of
cities." Bacon.

POLICY
Pol"i*cy, n. Etym: [F. police; cf. Pr. polissia, Sp. pólizia, It.
pólizza; of uncertain origin; cf. L. pollex thumb (as being used in
pressing the seal), in LL. also, seal; or cf. LL. politicum,
poleticum, polecticum, L. polyptychum, account book, register, fr.
Gr. apodixa a receipt.]

1. A ticket or warrant for money in the public funds.

2. The writing or instrument in which a contract of insurance is
embodied; an instrument in writing containing the terms and
conditions on which one party engages to indemnify another against
loss arising from certain hazards, perils, or risks to which his
person or property may be exposed. See Insurance.

3. A method of gambling by betting as to what numbers will be drawn
in a lottery; as, to play policy. Interest policy, a policy that
shows by its form that the assured has a real, substantial interest
in the matter insured.
 -- Open policy, one in which the value of the goods or property
insured is not mentioned.
 -- Policy book, a book to contain a record of insurance policies.
 -- Policy holder, one to whom an insurance policy has been granted.
 -- Policy shop, a gambling place where one may bet on the numbers
which will be drawn in lotteries.
 -- Valued policy, one in which the value of the goods, property, or
interest insured is specified.
 -- Wager policy, a policy that shows on the face of it that the
contract it embodies is a pretended insurance, founded on an ideal
risk, where the insured has no interest in anything insured.

POLING
Pol"ing, n. Etym: [From Pole a stick.]

1. The act of supporting or of propelling by means of a pole or
poles; as, the poling of beans; the poling of a boat.

2. (Gardening)

Defn: The operation of dispersing worm casts over the walks with
poles.

3. One of the poles or planks used in upholding the side earth in
excavating a tunnel, ditch, etc.

POLISH
Pol"ish, a. Etym: [From Pole a Polander.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Poles.

POLISH
Pol"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Polished; p. pr. & vb. n. Polishing.]
Etym: [F. polir, L. polire. Cf. Polite, -ish]

1. To make smooth and glossy, usually by friction; to burnish; to
overspread with luster; as, to polish glass, marble, metals, etc.

2. Hence, to refine; to wear off the rudeness, coarseness, or
rusticity of; to make elegant and polite; as, to polish life or
manners. Milton. To polish off, to finish completely, as an
adversary. [Slang] W. H. Russell.

POLISH
Pol"ish, v. i.

Defn: To become smooth, as from friction; to receive a gloss; to take
a smooth and glossy surface; as, steel polishes well. Bacon.

POLISH
Pol"ish, n.

1. A smooth, glossy surface, usually produced by friction; a gloss or
luster.
Another prism of clearer glass and better polish. Sir I. Newton.

2. Anything used to produce a gloss.

3. Fig.: Refinement; elegance of manners.
This Roman polish and this smooth behavior. Addison.

POLISHABLE
Pol"ish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being polished.

POLISHED
Pol"ished, a.

Defn: Made smooth and glossy, as by friction; hence, highly finished;
refined; polite; as, polished plate; polished manners; polished
verse.

POLISHEDNESS
Pol"ished*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being polished.

POLISHER
Pol"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, polishes; also, that which is used in
polishing. Addison.

POLISHING
Pol"ish*ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Polish. Polishing iron, an iron burnisher; esp., a
small smoothing iron used in laundries.
 -- Polishing slate. (a) A gray or yellow slate, found in Bohemia and
Auvergne, and used for polishing glass, marble, and metals. (b) A
kind of hone or whetstone; hone slate.
 -- Polishing snake, a tool used in cleaning lithographic stones.
 -- Polishing wheel, a wheel or disk coated with, or composed of,
abrading material, for polishing a surface.

POLISHMENT
Pol"ish*ment, n.

Defn: The act of polishing, or the state of being polished. [R.]

POLISSOIR
Po`lis`soir", n. [F.]

1. A polishing or grinding implement or instrument.

2.  (Glass Making) A tool consisting of a flat wooden block with a
long iron handle, used for flattening out split cylinders of blown
glass.

POLITE
Po*lite", a. [Compar. Politer; superl. Politest.] Etym: [L. politus,
p. p. of polire to polish: cf. F. poli. See Polish, v.]

1. Smooth; polished. [Obs.]
Rays of light falling on a polite surface. Sir I. Newton.

2. Smooth and refined in behavior or manners; well bred; courteous;
complaisant; obliging; civil.
He marries, bows at court, and grows polite. Pope.

3. Characterized by refinement, or a high degree of finish; as,
polite literature. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Polished; refined; well bred; courteous; affable; urbane; civil;
courtly; elegant; genteel.

POLITE
Po*lite", v. t.

Defn: To polish; to refine; to render polite. [Obs.] Ray.

POLITELY
Po*lite"ly, adv.

1. In a polished manner; so as to be smooth or glossy. [Obs.] Milton.

2. In a polite manner; with politeness.

POLITENESS
Po*lite"ness, n.

1. High finish; smoothness; burnished elegance. [R.] Evelyn.

2. The quality or state of being polite; refinement of manners;
urbanity; courteous behavior; complaisance; obliging attentions.

Syn.
 -- Courtesy; good breeding; refinement; urbanity; courteousness;
affability; complaisance; civility; gentility; courtliness.
 -- Politeness, Courtesy. Politeness denotes that ease and
gracefulness of manners which first sprung up in cities, connected
with a desire to please others by anticipating their wants and
wishes, and studiously avoiding whatever might give them pain.
Courtesy is, etymologically, the politeness of courts. It displays
itself in the address and manners; it is shown more especially in
receiving and entertaining others, and is a union of dignified
complaisance and kindness.

POLITESSE
Pol`i*tesse", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Politeness.

POLITIC
Pol"i*tic, a. Etym: [L. politicus political, Gr. politique. See
Police, and cf. ePolitical.]

1. Of or pertaining to polity, or civil government; political; as,
the body politic. See under Body.
He with his people made all but one politic body. Sir P. Sidney.

2. Pertaining to, or promoting, a policy, especially a national
policy; well-devised; adapted to its end, whether right or wrong; --
said of things; as, a politic treaty. "Enrich'd with politic grave
counsel." Shak.

3. Sagacious in promoting a policy; ingenious in devising and
advancing a system of management; devoted to a scheme or system
rather than to a principle; hence, in a good sense, wise; prudent;
sagacious; and in a bad sense, artful; unscrupulous; cunning; -- said
of persons.
Politic with my friend, smooth with mine enemy. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Wise; prudent; sagacious; discreet; provident; wary; artful;
cunning.

POLITIC
Pol`i*tic, n.

Defn: A politician. [Archaic] Bacon.
Swiftly the politic goes; is it dark he borrows a lantern; Slowly the
statesman and sure, guiding his feet by the stars. Lowell.

POLITICAL
Po*lit"i*cal, a.

1. Having, or conforming to, a settled system of administration. [R.]
"A political government." Evelyn.

2. Of or pertaining to public policy, or to politics; relating to
affairs of state or administration; as, a political writer. "The
political state of Europe." Paley.

3. Of or pertaining to a party, or to parties, in the state; as, his
political relations were with the Whigs.

4. Politic; wise; also, artful. [Obs.] Sterne. Political economy,
that branch of political science or philosophy which treats of the
sources, and methods of production and preservation, of the material
wealth and prosperity of nations.

POLITICALISM
Po*lit"i*cal*ism, n.

Defn: Zeal or party spirit in politics.

POLITICALLY
Po*lit"i*cal*ly, adv.

1. In a political manner.

2. Politicly; artfully. [Obs.] Knolles.

POLITICASTER
Po*lit"i*cas`ter, n. Etym: [Cf. It. politicastro.]

Defn: A petty politician; a pretender in politics. Milton.

POLITICIAN
Pol`i*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. politicien.]

1. One versed or experienced in the science of government; one
devoted to politics; a statesman.
While empiric politicians use deceit. Dryden.

2. One primarily devoted to his own advancement in public office, or
to the success of a political party; -- used in a depreciatory sense;
one addicted or attached to politics as managed by parties (see
Politics, 2); a schemer; an intriguer; as, a mere politician.
Like a scurvy politician, seem To see the things thou dost not. Shak.
The politician . . . ready to do anything that he apprehends for his
advantage. South.

POLITICIAN
Pol`i*ti"cian, a.

Defn: Cunning; using artifice; politic; artful. "Ill-meaning
politician lords." Milton.

POLITICIST
Po*lit"i*cist, n.

Defn: A political writer. [R.]

POLITICLY
Pol"i*tic*ly, adv.

Defn: In a politic manner; sagaciously; shrewdly; artfully. Pope.

POLITICS
Pol"i*tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. politique, Gr. Politic.]

1. The science of government; that part of ethics which has to do
with the regulation and government of a nation or state, the
preservation of its safety, peace, and prosperity, the defense of its
existence and rights against foreign control or conquest, the
augmentation of its strength and resources, and the protection of its
citizens in their rights, with the preservation and improvement of
their morals.

2. The management of a political party; the conduct and contests of
parties with reference to political measures or the administration of
public affairs; the advancement of candidates to office; in a bad
sense, artful or dishonest management to secure the success of
political candidates or parties; political trickery.
When we say that two men are talking politics, we often mean that
they are wrangling about some mere party question. F. W. Robertson.

POLITIZE
Pol"i*tize, v. i.

Defn: To play the politician; to dispute as politicians do. [Obs.]
Milton.

POLITURE
Pol"i*ture, n. Etym: [L. politura, fr. polire to polish. See Polish,
v.]

Defn: Polish; gloss. [Obs.] Donne.

POLITY
Pol"i*ty, n.; pl. Polities. Etym: [L. politia, Gr. politie. See 1st
Policy, Police.]

1. The form or constitution of the civil government of a nation or
state; the framework or organization by which the various departments
of government are combined into a systematic whole. Blackstone.
Hooker.

2. Hence: The form or constitution by which any institution is
organized; the recognized principles which lie at the foundation of
any human institution.
Nor is possible that any form of polity, much less polity
ecclesiastical, should be good, unless God himself be author of it.
Hooker.

3. Policy; art; management. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- Policy.
 -- Polity, Policy. These two words were originally the same. Polity
is now confined to the structure of a government; as, civil or
ecclesiastical polity; while policy is applied to the scheme of
management of public affairs with reference to some aim or result;
as, foreign or domestic policy. Policy has the further sense of
skillful or cunning management.

POLITZERIZATION
Po*litz`er*i*za"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: The act of inflating the middle ear by blowing air up the nose
during the act of swallowing; -- so called from Prof. Politzer of
Vienna, who first practiced it.

POLIVE
Pol"ive, n.

Defn: A pulley. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POLKA
Pol"ka, n. Etym: [Pol. Polka a Polish woman: cf. F. & G. polka.]

1. A dance of Polish origin, but now common everywhere. It is
performed by two persons in common time.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A lively Bohemian or Polish dance tune in 2-4 measure, with the
third quaver accented. Polka jacket, a kind of knit jacket worn by
women.

POLL
Poll, n. Etym: [From Polly, The proper name.]

Defn: A parrot; -- familiarly so called.

POLL
Poll, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who does not try for honors, but is content to take a
degree merely; a passman. [Cambridge Univ., Eng.]

POLL
Poll, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. polle the head, the crest of a bird, the
top of a tree, OD. pol, polle, Dan. puld the crown of a hat.]

1. The head; the back part of the head. "All flaxen was his poll."
Shak.

2. A number or aggregate of heads; a list or register of heads or
individuals.
We are the greater poll, and in true fear They gave us our demands.
Shak.
The muster file, rotten and sound, upon my life, amounts not to
fifteen thousand poll. Shak.

3. Specifically, the register of the names of electors who may vote
in an election.

4. The casting or recording of the votes of registered electors; as,
the close of the poll.
All soldiers quartered in place are to remove . . . and not to return
till one day after the poll is ended. Blackstone.

5. pl.

Defn: The place where the votes are cast or recorded; as, to go to
the polls.

6. The broad end of a hammer; the but of an ax.

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European chub. See Pollard, 3 (a). Poll book, a register of
persons entitled to vote at an election.
 -- Poll evil (Far.), an inflammatory swelling or abscess on a
horse's head, confined beneath the great ligament of the neck.
 -- Poll pick (Mining), a pole having a heavy spike on the end,
forming a kind of crowbar.
 -- Poll tax, a tax levied by the head, or poll; a capitation tax.

POLL
Poll, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Polled; p. pr. & vb. n. Polling.]

1. To remove the poll or head of; hence, to remove the top or end of;
to clip; to lop; to shear; as, to poll the head; to poll a tree.
When he [Absalom] pollled his head. 2 Sam. xiv. 26.
His death did so grieve them that they polled themselves; they
clipped off their horse and mule's hairs. Sir T. North.

2. To cut off; to remove by clipping, shearing, etc.; to mow or crop;
-- sometimes with off; as, to poll the hair; to poll wool; to poll
grass.
Who, as he polled off his dart's head, so sure he had decreed That
all the counsels of their war he would poll off like it. Chapman.

3. To extort from; to plunder; to strip. [Obs.]
Which polls and pills the poor in piteous wise. Spenser.

4. To impose a tax upon. [Obs.]

5. To pay as one's personal tax.
The man that polled but twelve pence for his head. Dryden.

6. To enter, as polls or persons, in a list or register; to enroll,
esp. for purposes of taxation; to enumerate one by one.
Polling the reformed churches whether they equalize in number those
of his three kingdoms. Milton.

7. To register or deposit, as a vote; to elicit or call forth, as
votes or voters; as, he polled a hundred votes more than his
opponent.
And poll for points of faith his trusty vote. Tickell.

8. (Law)

Defn: To cut or shave smooth or even; to cut in a straight line
without indentation; as, a polled deed. See Dee. Burrill. To poll a
jury, to call upon each member of the jury to answer individually as
to his concurrence in a verdict which has been rendered.

POLL
Poll, v. i.

Defn: To vote at an election. Beaconsfield.

POLLACK
Pol"lack, n. Etym: [Cf. G. & D. pollack, and Gael. pollag a little
pool, a sort of fish.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A marine gadoid food fish of Europe (Pollachius virens). Called
also greenfish, greenling, lait, leet, lob, lythe, and whiting
pollack.
(b) The American pollock; the coalfish.

POLLAGE
Poll"age, n.

Defn: A head or poll tax; hence, extortion. [Obs.] Foxe.

POLLAN
Pol"lan, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. pollag a kind of fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lake whitefish (Coregonus pollan), native of Ireland. In
appearance it resembles a herring.

POLLARD
Pol"lard, n. Etym: [From Poll the head.]

1. A tree having its top cut off at some height above the ground,
that may throw out branches. Pennant.

2. A clipped coin; also, a counterfeit. [Obs.] Camden.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A fish, the chub.
(b) A stag that has cast its antlers.
(c) A hornless animal (cow or sheep).

POLLARD
Pol"lard, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pollarded; p. pr. & vb. n. Pollarding.]

Defn: To lop the tops of, as trees; to poll; as, to pollard willows.
Evelyn.

POLLAX
Poll"ax`, n.

Defn: A poleax. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POLLED
Polled, a.

Defn: Deprived of a poll, or of something belonging to the poll.
Specifically: (a) Lopped; -- said of trees having their tops cut off.
(b) Cropped; hence, bald; -- said of a person. "The polled bachelor."
Beau. & Fl. (c) Having cast the antlers; -- said of a stag. (d)
Without horns; as, polled cattle; polled sheep.

POLLEN
Pol"len, n. Etym: [L. pollen fine flour, fine dust; cf. Gr.

1. Fine bran or flour. [Obs.] Bailey.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The fecundating dustlike cells of the anthers of flowers. See
Flower, and Illust. of Filament. Pollen grain (Bot.), a particle or
call of pollen.
 -- Pollen mass, a pollinium. Gray.
 -- Pollen sac, a compartment of an anther containing pollen, --
usually there are four in each anther.
 -- Pollen tube, a slender tube which issues from the pollen grain on
its contact with the stigma, which it penetrates, thus conveying, it
is supposed, the fecundating matter of the grain to the ovule.

POLLENARIOUS
Pol`len*a"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Consisting of meal or pollen.

POLLENED
Pol"lened, a.

Defn: Covered with pollen. Tennyson.

POLLENIFEROUS
Pol`len*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Pollen + -ferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Producing pollen; polliniferous.

POLLENIN
Pol"len*in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pollénine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance found in the pollen of certain plants. [R.]

POLLENIZE
Pol"len*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pollenized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pollenizing.]

Defn: To supply with pollen; to impregnate with pollen.

POLLER
Poll"er, n. Etym: [From Poll]

Defn: One who polls; specifically: (a) One who polls or lops trees.
(b) One who polls or cuts hair; a barber. [R.] (c) One who extorts or
plunders. [Obs.] Bacon. (d) One who registers voters, or one who
enters his name as a voter.

POLLEX
Pol"lex, n.; pl. Pollices. Etym: [L., the thumb.] (Anat.)

Defn: The first, or preaxial, digit of the fore limb, corresponding
to the hallux in the hind limb; the thumb. In birds, the pollex is
the joint which bears the bastard wing.

POLLICATE
Pol"li*cate, a. Etym: [L. pollex, pollicis, a thumb.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a curved projection or spine on the inner side of a leg
joint; -- said of insects.

POLLICITATION
Pol*lic`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. pollicitatio, fr. pollicitari to
promise, v. intens. fr. polliceri to promise: cf. F. pollicitation.]

1. A voluntary engagement, or a paper containing it; a promise. Bp.
Burnet.

2. (Roman Law)

Defn: A promise without mutuality; a promise which has not been
accepted by the person to whom it is made. Bouvier.

POLLINATE
Pol"li*nate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pollinose.

POLLINATE
Pol"li*nate, v. t. (Bot.)

Defn: To apply pollen to (a stigma).
 -- Pol`li*na"tion, n. (Bot.)

POLLINCTOR
Pol*linc"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. pollingere.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: One who prepared corpses for the funeral.

POLLING
Poll"ing, n. Etym: [See Poll the head.]

1. The act of topping, lopping, or cropping, as trees or hedges.

2. Plunder, or extortion. [Obs.] E. Hall.

3. The act of voting, or of registering a vote. Polling booth, a
temporary structure where the voting at an election is done; a
polling place.

POLLINIFEROUS
Pol`li*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. pollen, -inis, pollen + -ferous: cf.
F. pollinifère.] (Bot.)

Defn: Producing pollen; polleniferous.

POLLINIUM
Pol*lin"i*um, n.; pl. Pollinia. Etym: [NL. See Pollen.] (Bot.)

Defn: A coherent mass of pollen, as in the milkweed and most orchids.

POLLINOSE
Pol"li*nose`, a. Etym: [L. pollen, -inis, dust.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the surface covered with a fine yellow dust, like
pollen.

POLLIWIG; POLLIWOG
Pol"li*wig, Pol"li*wog, n. Etym: [OE. polwigle. Cf. Poll head, and
Wiggle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tadpole; -- called also purwiggy and porwigle.

POLLOCK
Pol"lock, n. Etym: [See Pollack.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine gadoid fish (Pollachius carbonarius), native both of
the European and American coasts. It is allied to the cod, and like
it is salted and dried. In England it is called coalfish, lob,
podley, podling, pollack, etc.

POLLUCITE
Pol"lu*cite, n. Etym: [See Pollux, and 4th Castor.] (Min.)

Defn: A colorless transparent mineral, resembling quartz, occurring
with castor or castorite on the island of Elba. It is a silicate of
alumina and cæsia. Called also pollux.

POLLUTE
Pol*lute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Polluted; p. pr. & vb. n. Polluting.]
Etym: [L. pollutus, p. p. of polluere to defile, to pollute, from a
prep. appearing only in comp. + luere to wash. See Position, Lave.]

1. To make foul, impure, or unclean; to defile; to taint; to soil; to
desecrate; -- used of physical or moral defilement.
The land was polluted with blood. Ps. cvi. 38
Wickedness . . . hath polluted the whole earth. 2 Esd. xv. 6.

2. To violate sexually; to debauch; to dishonor.

3. (Jewish Law)

Defn: To render ceremonially unclean; to disqualify or unfit for
sacred use or service, or for social intercourse.
Neither shall ye pollute the holy things of the children of Israel,
lest ye die. Num. xviii. 32.
They have polluted themselves with blood. Lam. iv. 14.

Syn.
 -- To defile; soil; contaminate; corrupt; taint; vitiate; debauch;
dishonor; ravish.

POLLUTE
Pol*lute", a. Etym: [L. pollutus.]

Defn: Polluted. [R.] Milton.

POLLUTED
Pol*lut"ed, a.

Defn: Defiled; made unclean or impure; debauched.
 -- Pol*lut"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Pol*lut"ed*ness, n.

POLLUTER
Pol*lut"er, n.

Defn: One who pollutes. Dryden.

POLLUTING
Pol*lut"ing, a.

Defn: Adapted or tending to pollute; causing defilement or pollution.
 -- Pol*lut"ing*ly, adv.

POLLUTION
Pol*lu"tion, n. Etym: [L. pollutio: cf. F. pollution.]

1. The act of polluting, or the state of being polluted (in any sense
of the verb); defilement; uncleanness; impurity.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The emission of semen, or sperm, at other times than in sexual
intercourse. Dunglison.

POLLUX
Pol"lux, n. Etym: [L., the twin brother of castor; also, the
constellation.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A fixed star of the second magnitude, in the constellation
Gemini. Cf. 3d Castor.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Pollucite.

POLLY
Pol"ly, n.

Defn: A woman's name; also, a popular name for a parrot.

POLLYWOG
Pol"ly*wog, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A polliwig.

POLO
Po"lo, n. Etym: [Of Eastern origin; -- properly, the ball used in the
game.]

1. A game of ball of Eastern origin, resembling hockey, with the
players on horseback.

2. A similar game played on the ice, or on a prepared floor, by
players wearing skates.

POLONAISE
Po`lo*naise", a. Etym: [F. polonais, polonaise, Polish.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Poles, or to Poland. [Written also
Polonese.]

POLONAISE
Po`lo*naise", n. Etym: [Written also Polonese and Polonoise.]

1. The Polish language.

2. An article of dress for women, consisting of a body and an outer
skirt in one piece.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A stately Polish dance tune, in 3-4 measure, beginning always
on the beat with a quaver followed by a crotchet, and closing on the
beat after a strong accent on the second beat; also, a dance adapted
to such music; a polacca.

POLONESE
Po`lo*nese", a. & n.

Defn: See Polonaise.

POLONIUM
Po*lo"ni*um, n. [NL. So named after Poland, in L. form Polonia, one
of the discoverers being a Pole.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed new element, a radioactive substance discovered by
M. and MMe. Curie in pitchblende. It is closely related chemically to
bismuth. It emits only alpha rays and is perhaps identical with
radium F.

POLONY
Po*lo"ny, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupt. fr. Bologna.]

Defn: A kind of sausage made of meat partly cooked.

POLRON
Pol"ron, n.

Defn: See Pauldron.

POLT
Polt, n. Etym: [Cf. E. pelt, L. pultare to beat, strike.]

Defn: A blow or thump. Halliwell.
 -- a.

Defn: Distorted. Pot foot, a distorted foot. Sir T. Herbert.

POLT-FOOT; POLT-FOOTED
Polt"-foot`, Polt"-foot`ed, a.

Defn: Having a distorted foot, or a clubfoot or clubfeet. B. Jonson.

POLTROON
Pol*troon", n. Etym: [F. poltron, from It. poltrone an idle fellow,
sluggard, coward, poltro idle, lazy, also, bed, fr. OHG. polstar,
bolstar, cushion, G. polster, akin to E. bolster. See Bolster.]

Defn: An arrant coward; a dastard; a craven; a mean-spirited wretch.
Shak.

POLTROON
Pol*troon", a.

Defn: Base; vile; contemptible; cowardly.

POLTROONERY
Pol*troon"er*y, n. Etym: [F. poltronnerie; cf. It. poltroneria.]

Defn: Cowardice; want of spirit; pusillanimity.

POLTROONISH
Pol*troon"ish, a.

Defn: Resembling a poltroon; cowardly.

POLVERINE
Pol"ve*rine, n. Etym: [It. polverino, fr. polvere ust, L. pulvis, -
veris. See Powder.]

Defn: Glassmaker's ashes; a kind of potash or pearlash, brought from
the Levant and Syria, -- used in the manufacture of fine glass.

POLWIG
Pol"wig, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A polliwig. Holland.

POLY-
Pol"y-. Etym: [See Full, a.]

Defn: A combining form or prefix from Gr. poly`s, many; as, polygon,
a figure of many angles; polyatomic, having many atoms; polychord,
polyconic.

POLY
Po"ly, n. Etym: [L. polium, the name of a plant, perhaps Teucrium
polium, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A whitish woolly plant (Teucrium Polium) of the order Labiatæ,
found throughout the Mediterranean region. The name, with sundry
prefixes, is sometimes given to other related species of the same
genus. [Spelt also poley.] Poly mountain. See Poly-mountain, in
Vocabulary.

POLYACID
Pol`y*ac"id, a. Etym: [Poly- + acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several
molecules of a monobasic acid; having more than one hydrogen atom
capable of being replaced by acid radicals; -- said of certain bases;
as, calcium hydrate and glycerin are polyacid bases.

POLYACOUSTIC
Pol`y*a*cous"tic, a. Etym: [Poly- + acoustic: cf. F. polyacoustique.]

Defn: Multiplying or magnifying sound.
 -- n.

Defn: A polyacoustic instrument.

POLYACOUSTICS
Pol`y*a*cous"tics, n.

Defn: The art of multiplying or magnifying sounds.

POLYACRON
Pol`y*a"cron, n.; pl. Polyacra, E. Polyacrons. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
poly`s many + 'a`kron summit.] (Geom.)

Defn: A solid having many summits or angular points; a polyhedron.

POLYACTINIA
Pol`y*ac*tin"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Poly-, and Actinia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An old name for those Anthozoa which, like the actinias, have
numerous simple tentacles.

POLYADELPHIA
Pol`y*a*del"phi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants having stamens united in three or
more bodies or bundles by the filaments.

POLYADELPHIAN; POLYADELPHOUS
Pol`y*a*del"phi*an, Pol`y*a*del"phous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the class Polyadelphia; having stamens united in
three or more bundles.

POLYANDRIA
Pol`y*an"dri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Polyandry.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of monoclinous or hermaphrodite plants, having
many stamens, or any number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle.

POLYANDRIAN
Pol`y*an"dri*an, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Polyandrous.

POLYANDRIC
Pol`y*an"dric, a. Etym: [Cf. polyandrique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, polyandry; mating with
several males. "Polyandric societies." H. Spencer.

POLYANDROUS
Pol`y*an"drous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the class Polyandria; having many stamens, or any
number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle.

POLYANDRY
Pol`y*an"dry, n. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. polyandrie.]

Defn: The possession by a woman of more than one husband at the same
time; -- contrasted with Ant: monandry.

Note: In law, this falls under the head of polygamy.

POLYANTHUS
Pol`y*an"thus, n.; pl. Polyanthuses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. [Written
also polyanthos.] (Bot.)
(a) The oxlip. So called because the peduncle bears a many-flowered
umbel. See Oxlip. (b) A bulbous flowering plant of the genus
Narcissus (N. Tazetta, or N. polyanthus of some authors). See Illust.
of Narcissus.

POLYARCHIST
Pol"y*ar`chist, n.

Defn: One who advocates polyarchy; -- opposed to monarchist.
Cudworth.

POLYARCHY
Pol"y*ar`chy, n. Etym: [Poly- + -archy: cf. F. polyarchie. Cf.
Polarchy.]

Defn: A government by many persons, of whatever order or class.
Cudworth.

POLYATOMIC
Pol`y*a*tom"ic, a. Etym: [Poly- + atomic.] (Chem.)
(a) Having more than one atom in the molecule; consisting of several
atoms.
(b) Having a valence greater than one. [Obs.]

POLYAUTOGRAPHY
Pol`y*au*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Poly- + autography.]

Defn: The act or practice of multiplying copies of one's own
handwriting, or of manuscripts, by printing from stone, -- a species
of lithography.

POLYBASIC
Pol`y*ba"sic, a. Etym: [Poly- + basic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several
molecules of a monacid base; having several hydrogen atoms capable of
being replaced by basic radicals; -- said of certain acids; as,
sulphuric acid is polybasic.

POLYBASITE
Pol`y*ba"site, n. Etym: [See Polybasic.] (Min.)

Defn: An iron-black ore of silver, consisting of silver, sulphur, and
antimony, with some copper and arsenic.

POLYBRANCHIA
Pol`y*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Poly-, and Branchia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Nudibranchiata including those which have
numerous branchiæ on the back.

POLYBROMIDE
Pol`y*bro"mide, n. Etym: [Poly- + bromide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bromide containing more than one atom of bromine in the
molecule.

POLYCARPELLARY
Pol`y*car"pel*la*ry, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of several or numerous carpels; -- said of such fruits
as the orange.

POLYCARPIC; POLYCARPOUS
Pol`y*car"pic, Pol`y*car"pous, a. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. (Bot.)
(a) Bearing fruit repeatedly, or year after year.
(b) Having several pistils in one flower.

POLYCHAETA
Pol`y*chæ"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the two principal groups of Chætopoda. It includes those
that have prominent parapodia and fascicles of setæ. See Illust.
under Parapodia.

POLYCHLORIDE
Pol`y*chlo"ride, n. Etym: [Poly- + chloride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A chloride containing more than one atom of chlorine in the
molecule.

POLYCHOERANY
Pol`y*choer"a*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A government by many chiefs, princes, or rules. [Obs.]
Cudworth.

POLYCHORD
Pol"y*chord, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having many strings.

POLYCHORD
Pol"y*chord, n. (Mus.)
(a) A musical instrument of ten strings.
(b) An apparatus for coupling two octave notes, capable of being
attached to a keyed instrument.

POLYCHREST
Pol"y*chrest, n. Etym: [Gr. polychreste.] (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that serves for many uses, or that cures many
diseases. [Obs.] Polychrest salt (Old Med. Chem.), potassium
sulphate, specifically obtained by fusing niter with sulphur.

POLYCHROISM
Pol"y*chro*ism, n. Etym: [Poly- + Gr.

Defn: Same as Pleochroism.

POLYCHROITE
Pol"y*chro*ite, n. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. polychroïte.] (Chem.)

Defn: The coloring matter of saffron; -- formerly so called because
of the change of color on treatment with certain acids; -- called
also crocin, and safranin.

POLYCHROMATE
Pol`y*chro"mate, n. Etym: [See Polychromic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of a polychromic acid.

POLYCHROMATE
Pol`y*chro"mate, n. Etym: [See Polychromatic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound which exhibits, or from which may be prepared, a
variety of colors, as certain solutions derived from vegetables,
which display colors by fluorescence.

POLYCHROMATIC
Pol`y*chro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Poly- + chromatic.]

Defn: Showing a variety, or a change, of colors. Polychromatic acid
(Old Chem.), a substance obtained by the action of nitric acid on
aloes.

POLYCHROME
Pol"y*chrome, n. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Esculin; -- so called in allusion to its fluorescent solutions.
[R.]

POLYCHROME
Pol"y*chrome, a. Etym: [Cf. F. polychrome.]

Defn: Executed in the manner of polychromy; as, polychrome printing.

POLYCHROMIC
Pol`y*chro"mic, a. Etym: [Poly- + (sense 1) Gr. chromic.]

1. Polychromatic.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, any one of several acids (known
only in their salts) which contain more than one atom of chromium.

POLYCHROMOUS
Pol`y*chro"mous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to polychromy; many-colored; polychromatic.

POLYCHROMY
Pol"y*chro`my, n. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. (Anc. Art)

Defn: The art or practice of combining different colors, especially
brilliant ones, in an artistic way.

POLYCHRONIOUS
Pol`y*chro"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Poly- + Gr.

Defn: Enduring through a long time; chronic.

POLYCLINIC
Pol`y*clin"ic, n. Etym: [Poly- + clinic.] (Med.)

Defn: A clinic in which diseases of many sorts are treated;
especially, an institution in which clinical instruction is given in
all kinds of disease.

POLYCONIC
Pol`y*con"ic, a. Etym: [Poly- + conic.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or based upon, many cones. Polyconic projection
(Map Making), a projection of the earth's surface, or any portion
thereof, by which each narrow zone is projected upon a conical
surface that touches the sphere along this zone, the conical surface
being then unrolled. This projection differs from conic projection in
that latter assumes but one cone for the whole map. Polyconic
projection is that in use in the United States coast and geodetic
survey.

POLYCOTYLEDON
Pol`y*cot`y*le"don, n. Etym: [Poly- + cotyledon: cf. F.
polycotylédone.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant that has many, or more than two, cotyledons in the
seed.
 -- Pol`y*cot`y*led"on*ous, a.

POLYCOTYLEDONARY
Pol`y*cot`y*led"on*a*ry, a. Etym: [Poly- + cotyledonary.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the villi of the placenta collected into definite
patches, or cotyledons.

POLYCRACY
Po*lyc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Poly- + -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: Government by many rulers; polyarchy.

POLYCROTIC
Pol`y*crot"ic, a. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to polycrotism; manifesting polycrotism; as, a
polycrotic pulse; a polycrotic pulse curve.

POLYCROTISM
Po*lyc"ro*tism, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: That state or condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve,
or sphygmogram, shows several secondary crests or elevations; --
contrasted with monocrotism and dicrotism.

POLYCYSTID
Pol`y*cys"tid, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the Polycystidea.
(b) One of the Polycystina.
 -- a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Polycystidea, or the Polycystina.

POLYCYSTIDEA
Pol`y*cys*tid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Poly-, and Cystidea.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Gregarinæ including those that have two or more
internal divisions of the body.

POLYCYSTINA
Pol`y*cys*ti"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Poly-, and Cyst.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Radiolaria including numerous minute marine
species. The skeleton is composed of silica, and is often very
elegant in form and sculpture. Many have been found in the fossil
state.

POLYCYSTINE
Pol`y*cys"tine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Polycystina.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Polycystina.

POLYCYTTARIA
Pol`y*cyt*ta"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Radiolaria. It includes those having one more
central capsules.

POLYDACTYLISM
Pol`y*dac"tyl*ism, n. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. polydactylisme.] (Anat.)

Defn: The possession of more that the normal number of digits.

POLYDIPSIA
Pol`y*dip"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Excessive and constant thirst occasioned by disease.

POLYEDRON
Pol`y*e"dron, n.

Defn: See Polyhedron.

POLYEDROUS
Pol`y*e"drous, a.

Defn: See Polyhedral.

POLYEIDIC
Pol`y*ei"dic, a. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Passing through several distinct larval forms; -- having
several distinct kinds of young.

POLYEIDISM
Pol`y*ei"dism, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The quality or state of being polyeidic.

POLYEMBRYONATE
Pol`y*em"bry*o*nate, a. Etym: [Poly- + embryonate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of, or having, several embryos; polyembryonic.

POLYEMBRYONIC
Pol`y*em`bry*on"ic, a. Etym: [Poly- + embryonic.] (Bot.)

Defn: Polyembryonate.

POLYEMBRYONY
Pol`y*em"bry*o*ny, n. Etym: [See Poly-, and Embryo.] (Bot.)

Defn: The production of two or more embryos in one seed, due either
to the existence and fertilization of more than one embryonic sac or
to the origination of embryos outside of the embryonic sac.

POLYFOIL
Pol"y*foil, n. Etym: [Poly- + foil, n.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Multifoil.

POLYGALA
Po*lyg"a*la, n. Etym: [L., milkwort, fr. Gr.

Defn: A genus of bitter herbs or shrubs having eight stamens and a
two-celled ovary (as the Seneca snakeroot, the flowering wintergreen,
etc.); milkwort.

POLYGALACEOUS
Pol`y*ga*la"ceous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polygalaceæ) of
which Polygala is the type.

POLYGALIC
Po*lyg"a*lic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, Polygala; specifically,
designating an acrid glucoside (called polygalic acid, senegin,
etc.), resembling, or possibly identical with, saponin.

POLYGAMIA
Pol`y*ga"mi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Polygamous.] (Bot.)
(a) A Linnæan class of plants, characterized by having both
hermaphrodite and unisexual flowers on the same plant.
(b) A name given by Linnæus to file orders of plants having
syngenesious flowers.

POLYGAMIAN
Pol`y*ga"mi*an, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Polygamous.

POLYGAMIST
Po*lyg"a*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. polygamiste, polygame, Gr. a.]

Defn: One who practices polygamy, or maintains its lawfulness.

POLYGAMIZE
Po*lyg"a*mize, v. i.

Defn: To practice polygamy; to marry several wives. Sylvester.
Coleridge.

POLYGAMOUS
Po*lyg"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Bigamy.]

1. Of or pertaining to polygamy; characterized by, or involving,
polygamy; having a plurality of wives; as, polygamous marriages; --
opposed to monogamous.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pairing with more than one female.
Most deer, cattle, and sheep are polygamous. Darwin.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the Polygamia; bearing both hermaphrodite and
unisexual flowers on the same plant.

POLYGAMY
Po*lyg"a*my, n. Etym: [Gr. polygamie.]

1. The having of a plurality of wives or husbands at the same time;
usually, the marriage of a man to more than one woman, or the
practice of having several wives, at the same time; -- opposed to
monogamy; as, the nations of the East practiced polygamy. See the
Note under Bigamy, and cf. Polyandry.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The state or habit of having more than one mate.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The condition or state of a plant which bears both perfect and
unisexual flowers.

POLYGASTRIAN
Pol`y*gas"tri*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Polygastrica. [Obs.]

POLYGASTRIC
Pol`y*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Poly- + gastric: cf. F. polygastrique.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Having several bellies; -- applied to muscles which are made up
of several bellies separated by short tendons.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Polygastrica. [Obs.]

POLYGASTRIC
Pol`y*gas"tric, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Polygastrica.

POLYGASTRICA
Pol`y*gas"tri*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL. So called because they were
supposed to have several stomachs, or digestive cavities.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Infusoria. [Obs.]

POLYGENESIS; POLYGENY
Pol`y*gen"e*sis, Po*lyg"e*ny, n. Etym: [Poly- + genesis, or root of
Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The theory that living organisms originate in cells or embryos
of different kinds, instead of coming from a single cell; -- opposed
to monogenesis.

POLYGENETIC
Pol`y*ge*net"ic, a.

1. Having many distinct sources; originating at various places or
times. 2. (Biol.) Of or pertaining to polygenesis; polyphyletic.
Polygenetic mountain range (Geol.), one which is composite, or
consists of two or more monogenetic ranges, each having had its own
history of development. Dana.

POLYGENIC
Pol`y*gen"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or relating to polygeny; polygenetic.

POLYGENISM
Po*lyg"e*nism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. polygénisme.] (Biol.)

Defn: The doctrine that animals of the same species have sprung from
more than one original pair.

POLYGENIST
Po*lyg"e*nist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One who maintains that animals of the same species have sprung
from more than one original pair; -- opposed to monogenist.

POLYGENOUS
Po*lyg"e*nous, a. Etym: [Poly- + -genous: cf. Gr.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, many kinds; as, a polygenous
mountain. Kirwan.

POLYGLOT
Pol"y*glot, a. Etym: [Gr. polyglotte.]

1. Containing, or made up, of, several languages; as, a polyglot
lexicon, Bible.

2. Versed in, or speaking, many languages.

POLYGLOT
Pol"y*glot, n.

1. One who speaks several languages. [R.] "A polyglot, or good
linguist." Howell.

2. A book containing several versions of the same text, or containing
the same subject matter in several languages; esp., the Scriptures in
several languages.
Enriched by the publication of polyglots. Abp. Newcome.

POLYGLOTTOUS
Pol`y*glot"tous, a. Etym: [See Polyglot.]

Defn: Speaking many languages; polyglot. [R.] "The polyglottous
tribes of America." Max Müller.

POLYGON
Pol"y*gon, n. Etym: [Gr. polygone.] (Geom.)

Defn: A plane figure having many angles, and consequently many sides;
esp., one whose perimeter consists of more than four sides; any
figure having many angles. Polygon of forces (Mech.), a polygonal
figure, the sides of which, taken successively, represent, in length
and direction, several forces acting simultaneously upon one point,
so that the side necessary to complete the figure represents the
resultant of those forces. Cf. Parallelogram of forces, under
Parallelogram.