

SECRET SERVICE
Se"cret serv"ice.

Defn: The detective service of a government. In the United States, in
time of peace the bureau of secret service is under the treasury
department, and in time of war it aids the war department in securing
information concerning the movements of the enemy.

SECT
Sect, n. Etym: [L. secare, sectum, to cut.]

Defn: A cutting; a scion. [Obs.] Shak.

SECT
Sect, n. Etym: [F. secte, L. sects, fr. sequi to follew; often
confused with L. secare, sectum, to cut. See Sue to follow, and cf.
Sept, Suit, n.]

Defn: Those following a particular leader or authority, or attached
to a certain opinion; a company or set having a common belief or
allegiance distinct from others; in religion, the believers in a
particular creed, or upholders of a particular practice; especially,
in modern times, a party dissenting from an established church; a
denomination; in philosophy, the disciples of a particular master; a
school; in society and the state, an order, rank, class, or party.
He beareth the sign of poverty, And in that sect our Savior saved all
mankind. Piers Plowman.
As of the sect of which that he was born, He kept his lay, to which
that he was sworn. Chaucer.
The cursed sect of that detestable and false prophet Mohammed.
Fabyan.
As concerning this sect [Christians], we know that everywhere it is
spoken against. Acts xxviii. 22.

SECTANT
Sec"tant, n. Etym: [L. secare, sectum, to cut.]

Defn: One of the portions of space bounded by the three coordinate
planes. Specif. (Crystallog.), one of the parts of a crystal into
which it is divided by the axial planes.

SECTARIAN
Sec*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect;
bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination; as,
sectarian principles or prejudices.

SECTARIAN
Sec*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: One of a sect; a member or adherent of a special school,
denomination, or religious or philosophical party; one of a party in
religion which has separated itself from established church, or which
holds tenets different from those of the prevailing denomination in a
state.

Syn.
 -- See Heretic.

SECTARIANISM
Sec*ta"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or character of a sectarian; devotion to the
interests of a party; excess of partisan or denominational zeal;
adherence to a separate church organization.

SECTARIANIZE
Sec*ta"ri*an*ize, v. t.

Defn: To imbue with sectarian feelings; to subject to the control of
a sect.

SECTARISM
Sec"ta*rism, n.

Defn: Sectarianism. [Obs.]

SECTARIST
Sec"ta*rist, n.

Defn: A sectary. [R.] T. Warton.

SECTARY
Sec"ta*ry, n.;pl. Sectaries. Etym: [F. sectaire. See Sect.]

Defn: A sectarian; a member or adherent of a sect; a follower or
disciple of some particular teacher in philosophy or religion; one
who separates from an established church; a dissenter.
I never knew that time in England when men of truest religion were
not counted sectaries. Milton.

SECTATOR
Sec*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. sectari, v. intens. fr. sequi to
follow. See Sue to follow.]

Defn: A follower; a disciple; an adherent to a sect. [Obs.] Sir W.
Raleigh.

SECTILE
Sec"tile, a. Etym: [L. sectilis, fr. secare, sectum, to cut: cf. F.
sectile. See Section.]

Defn: Capable of being cut; specifically (Min.), capable of being
severed by the knife with a smooth cut; -- said of minerals.

SECTILITY
Sec*til"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being sectile.

SECTION
Sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. sectio, fr. secare, sectum, to cut; akin to E.
saw a cutting instrument: cf. F. section. See Saw, and cf. Scion,
Dissect, Insect, Secant, Segment.]

1. The act of cutting, or separation by cutting; as, the section of
bodies.

2. A part separated from something; a division; a portion; a slice.
Specifically: --
(a) A distinct part or portion of a book or writing; a subdivision of
a chapter; the division of a law or other writing; a paragraph; an
article; hence, the character §, often used to denote such a
division.
It is hardly possible to give a distinct view of his several
arguments in distinct sections. Locke.

(b) A distinct part of a country or people, community, class, or the
like; a part of a territory separated by geographical lines, or of a
people considered as distinct.
The extreme section of one class consists of bigoted dotards, the
extreme section of the other consists of shallow and reckless
empirics. Macaulay.

(c) One of the portions, of one square mile each, into which the
public lands of the United States are divided; one thirty-sixth part
of a township. These sections are subdivided into quarter sections
for sale under the homestead and preëmption laws.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: The figure made up of all the points common to a superficies
and a solid which meet, or to two superficies which meet, or to two
lines which meet. In the first case the section is a superficies, in
the second a line, and in the third a point.

4. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A division of a genus; a group of species separated by some
distinction from others of the same genus; -- often indicated by the
sign §.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A part of a musical period, composed of one or more phrases.
See Phrase.

6. The description or representation of anything as it would appear
if cut through by any intersecting plane; depiction of what is beyond
a plane passing through, or supposed to pass through, an object, as a
building, a machine, a succession of strata; profile.

Note: In mechanical drawing, as in these Illustrations of a cannon, a
longitudinal section (a) usually represents the object as cut through
its center lengthwise and vertically; a cross or transverse section
(b), as cut crosswise and vertically; and a horizontal section (c),
as cut through its center horizontally. Oblique sections are made at
various angles. In architecture, a vertical section is a drawing
showing the interior, the thickness of the walls, ets., as if made on
a vertical plane passed through a building. Angular sections (Math.),
a branch of analysis which treats of the relations of sines,
tangents, etc., of arcs to the sines, tangents, etc., of their
multiples or of their parts. [R.] -- Conic sections. (Geom.) See
under Conic.
 -- Section liner (Drawing), an instrument to aid in drawing a series
of equidistant parallel lines, -- used in representing sections.
 -- Thin sections, a section or slice, as of mineral, animal, or
vegetable substance, thin enough to be transparent, and used for
study under the microscope.

Syn.
 -- Part; portion; division.
 -- Section, Part. The English more commonly apply the word section
to a part or portion of a body of men; as, a section of the clergy, a
small section of the Whigs, etc. In the United States this use is
less common, but another use, unknown or but little known in England,
is very frequent, as in the phrases "the eastern section of our
country," etc., the same sense being also given to the adjective
sectional as, sectional feelings, interests, etc.

SECTIONAL
Sec"tion*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a sections or distinct part of larger body or
territory; local.
All sectional interests, or party feelings, it is hoped, will
hereafter yield to schemes of ambition. Story.

2. Consisting of sections, or capable of being divided into sections;
as, a sectional steam boiler.

SECTIONALISM
Sec"tion*al*ism, n.

Defn: A disproportionate regard for the interests peculiar to a
section of the country; local patriotism, as distinguished from
national. [U. S.]

SECTIONALITY
Sec"tion*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being sectional; sectionalism.

SECTIONALIZE
Sec"tion*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To divide according to gepgraphical sections or local
interests. [U. S.]
The principal results of the struggle were to sectionalize parties.
Nicilay & Hay (Life of Lincoln).

SECTIONALLY
Sec"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sectional manner.

SECTIONIZE
Sec"tion*ize, v. t.

Defn: To form into sections. [R.]

SECTISM
Sect"ism, n.

Defn: Devotion to a sect. [R.]

SECTIST
Sect"ist, n.

Defn: One devoted to a sect; a soetary. [R.]

SECTIUNCLE
Sect"i*un`cle, n.

Defn: A little or petty sect. [R.] "Some new sect or sectiuncle." J.
Martineau.

SECTOR
Sec"tor, n. Etym: [L., properly, a cutter, fr. secare, sectum, to
cut: cf. F. secteur. See Section.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the
included arc.

2. A mathematical instrument, consisting of two rulers connected at
one end by a joint, each arm marked with several scales, as of equal
parts, chords, sines, tangents, etc., one scale of each kind on each
arm, and all on lines radiating from the common center of motion. The
sector is used for plotting, etc., to any scale.

3. An astronomical instrument, the limb of which embraces a small
portion only of a circle, used for measuring differences of
declination too great for the compass of a micrometer. When it is
used for measuring zenith distances of stars, it is called a zenith
sector. Dip sector, an instrument used for measuring the dip of the
horizon.
 -- Sector of a sphere, or Spherical sector, the solid generated by
the revolution of the sector of a circle about one of its radii, or,
more rarely, about any straight line drawn in the plane of the sector
through its vertex.

SECTORAL
Sec"tor*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sector; as, a sectoral circle.

SECTORIAL
Sec*to"ri*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Adapted for cutting.
 -- n.

Defn: A sectorial, or carnassial, tooth.

SECULAR
Sec"u*lar, a. Etym: [OE. secular, seculer. L. saecularis, fr.
saeculum a race, generation, age, the times, the world; perhaps akin
to E. soul: cf. F. séculier.]

1. Coming or observed once in an age or a century.
The secular year was kept but once a century. Addison.

2. Pertaining to an age, or the progress of ages, or to a long period
of time; accomplished in a long progress of time; as, secular
inequality; the secular refrigeration of the globe.

3. Of or pertaining to this present world, or to things not spiritual
or holy; relating to temporal as distinguished from eternal
interests; not immediately or primarily respecting the soul, but the
body; worldly.
New foes arise, Threatening to bind our souls with secular chains.
Milton.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: Not regular; not bound by monastic vows or rules; not confined
to a monastery, or subject to the rules of a religious community; as,
a secular priest.
He tried to enforce a stricter discipline and greater regard for
morals, both in the religious orders and the secular clergy.
Prescett.

5. Belonging to the laity; lay; not clerical.
I speak of folk in secular estate. Chaucer.
Secular equation (Astron.), the algebraic or numerical expression of
the magnitude of the inequalities in a planet's motion that remain
after the inequalities of a short period have been allowed for.
 -- Secular games (Rom. Antiq.), games celebrated, at long but
irregular intervals, for three days and nights, with sacrifices,
theatrical shows, combats, sports, and the like.
 -- Secular music, any music or songs not adapted to sacred uses.
 -- Secular hymn or poem, a hymn or poem composed for the secular
games, or sung or rehearsed at those games.

SECULAR
Sec"u*lar, n.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A secular ecclesiastic, or one not bound by monastic rules.
Burke.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A church official whose functions are confined to the vocal
department of the choir. Busby.

3. A layman, as distinguished from a clergyman.

SECULARISM
Sec"u*lar*ism, n.

1. The state or quality of being secular; a secular spirit;
secularity.

2. The tenets or principles of the secularists.

SECULARIST
Sec"u*lar*ist, n.

Defn: One who theoretically rejects every form of religious faith,
and every kind of religious worship, and accepts only the facts and
influences which are derived from the present life; also, one who
believes that education and other matters of civil policy should be
managed without the introduction of a religious element.

SECULARITY
Sec`u*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf.F. sécularité, LL. saecularitas.]

Defn: Supreme attention to the things of the present life;
worldliness.
A secularity of character which makes Christianity and its principal
doctrines distasteful or unintelligible. I. Taylor.

SECULARIZATION
Sec`u*lar*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sécularisation.]

Defn: The act of rendering secular, or the state of being rendered
secular; conversion from regular or monastic to secular; conversion
from religious to lay or secular possession and uses; as, the
secularization of church property.

SECULARIZE
Sec"u*lar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Secularized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Secularizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. séculaiser.]

1. To convert from regular or monastic into secular; as, to
secularize a priest or a monk.

2. To convert from spiritual or common use; as, to secularize a
church, or church property.
At the Reformation the abbey was secularized. W. Coxe.

3. To make worldly or unspiritual. Bp. Horsley.

SECULARLY
Sec"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a secular or worldly manner.

SECULARNESS
Sec"u*lar*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being secular; worldliness; worldly-
minded-ness.

SECUND
Se"cund, a. Etym: [L. secundus following the course or current of
wind of water. See Second, a.] (Bot.)

Defn: Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk.
Gray.

SECUNDATE
Se*cun"date, v. t. Etym: [L.secundatus, p. p. of secundare to direct
faverably.]

Defn: To make prosperous. [R.]

SECUNDATION
Sec`un*da"tion, n.

Defn: Prosperity. [R.]

SECUNDINE
Sec"un*dine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. secondine.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The second coat, or integument, of an ovule, lying within the
primine.

Note: In the ripened seed the primine and secundine are usually
united to form the testa, or outer seed coat. When they remain
distinct the secundine becomes the mesosperm, as in the castor bean.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. secondines.]

Defn: The afterbirth, or placenta and membranes; -- generally used in
the plural.

SECUNDO-GENITURE
Se*cun`do-gen"i*ture, n. Etym: [L. secundus second + genitura a
begetting, generation.]

Defn: A right of inheritance belonging to a second son; a property or
possession so inherited.
The kingdom of Naples . . . was constituted a secundo-geniture of
Spain. Bancroft.

SECURABLE
Se*cur"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be secured.

SECURE
Se*cure", a. Etym: [L. securus; pref. se- without + cura care. See
Cure care, and cf. Sure, a.]

1. Free from fear, care, or anxiety; easy in mind; not feeling
suspicion or distrust; confident.
But thou, secure of soul, unbent with woes. DRyden.

2. Overconfident; incautious; careless; -- in a bad sense. Macaulay.

3. Confident in opinion; not entertaining, or not having reason to
entertain, doubt; certain; sure; -- commonly with of; as, secure of a
welcome.
Confidence then bore thee on, secure Either to meet no danger, or to
find Matter of glorious trial. Milton.

4. Net exposed to danger; safe; -- applied to persons and things, and
followed by against or from. "Secure from fortune's blows." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Safe; undisturbed; easy; sure; certain; assured; confident;
careless; heedless; inattentive.

SECURE
Se*cure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Secured; p. pr. & vb. n. Securing.]

1. To make safe; to relieve from apprehensions of, or exposure to,
danger; to guard; to protect.
I spread a cloud before the victor's sight, Sustained the vanquished,
and secured his flight. Dryden.

2. To put beyond hazard of losing or of not receiving; to make
certain; to assure; to insure; -- frequently with against or from,
rarely with of; as, to secure a creditor against loss; to secure a
debt by a mortgage.
It secures its possessor of eternal happiness. T. Dick.

3. To make fast; to close or confine effectually; to render incapable
of getting loose or escaping; as, to secure a prisoner; to secure a
door, or the hatches of a ship.

4. To get possession of; to make one's self secure of; to acquire
certainly; as, to secure an estate. Secure arms (Mil.), a command and
a position in the manual of arms, used in wet weather, the object
being to guard the firearm from becoming wet. The piece is turned
with the barrel to the front and grasped by the right hand at the
lewer band, the muzzle is dropped to the front, and the piece held
with the guard under the right arm, the hand supported against the
hip, and the thumb on the rammer.

SECURELY
Se*cure"ly, adv.

Defn: In a secure manner; without fear or apprehension; without
danger; safely.
His daring foe . . . securely him defied. Milton.

SECUREMENT
Se*cure"ment, n.

Defn: The act of securing; protection. [R.]
Society condemns the securement in all cases of perpetual protection
by means of perpetual imprisonment. C. A. Ives.

SECURENESS
Se*cure"ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being secure; exemption from fear;
want of vigilance; security.

SECURER
Se*cur"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, secures.

SECURIFERA
Sec`u*rif"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. securis an ax + ferre to
bear.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Serrifera.

SECURIFORM
Se*cu"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. securis an ax or hatchet + -form: cf. F.
sécuriforme.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Having the form of an ax hatchet.

SECURIPALP
Se*cu"ri*palp, n. Etym: [L. securis ax, hatchet + E. palp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a family of beetles having the maxillary palpi
terminating in a hatchet-shaped joint.

SECURITY
Se*cu"ri*ty, n.; pl. Securities. Etym: [L. securitas: cf. F.
sécurité. See Secure, and cf. Surety.]

1. The condition or quality of being secure; secureness.
Specifically:
(a) Freedom from apprehension, anxiety, or care; confidence of power
of safety; hence, assurance; certainty.
His trembling hand had lost the ease, Which marks security to please.
Sir W. Scott.

(b) Hence, carelessness; negligence; heedlessness.
He means, my lord, that we are too remiss, Whilst Bolingbroke,
through our security, Grows strong and great in substance and in
power. Shak.

(c) Freedom from risk; safety.
Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard, From firm security.
Shak.
Some . . . alleged that we should have no security for our trade.
Swift.

2. That which secures or makes safe; protection; guard; defense.
Specifically:
(a) Something given, deposited, or pledged, to make certain the
fulfillment of an obligation, the performance of a contract, the
payment of a debt, or the like; surety; pledge.
Those who lent him money lent it on no security but his bare word.
Macaulay.

(b) One who becomes surety for another, or engages himself for the
performance of another's obligation.

3. An evidence of debt or of property, as a bond, a certificate of
stock, etc.; as, government securities.

Syn.
 -- Protection; defense; guard; shelter; safety; certainty; ease;
assurance; carelessness; confidence; surety; pledge; bail.

SEDAN
Se*dan", n. Etym: [Said to be named from Sedan, in France, where it
was first made, and whence it was introduced into England in the time
of King Charles I.]

Defn: A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single
person, -- usually borne on poles by two men. Called also sedan
chair.

SEDATE
Se*date", a. Etym: [L. sedatus, p. p. of sedare, sedatum, to allay,
calm, causative of sedere to sit. See Sit.]

Defn: Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not
passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or
temper.
Disputation carries away the mind from that calm and sedate temper
which is so necessary to contemplate truth. I. Watts.
Whatsoever we feel and know Too sedate for outward show. Wordsworth.

Syn.
 -- Settled; composed; calm; quiet; tranquil; still; serene;
unruffled; undisturbed; conteplative; sober; serious.
 -- Se*date"ly, adv.
 -- Se*date"ness, n.

SEDATION
Se*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. sedatio.]

Defn: The act of calming, or the state of being calm. [R.] Coles.

SEDATIVE
Sed"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sédatif.]

Defn: Tending to calm, moderate, or tranquilize; specifically (Med.),
allaying irritability and irritation; assuaging pain.

SEDATIVE
Sed"a*tive, n. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy which allays irritability and irritation, and
irritative activity or pain.

SEDENT
Se"dent, a. Etym: [L. sedens, -entis, p. pr. of sedere to sit. See
Sit.]

Defn: Sitting; inactive; quiet. [R.]

SEDENTARILY
Sed"en*ta*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sedentary manner.

SEDENTARINESS
Sed"en*ta*r*i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sedentary.

SEDENTARY
Sed"en*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. sedentarius, fr. sedere to sit: cf. F.
seédentaire. See Sedent.]

1. Accustomed to sit much or long; as, a sedentary man. "Sedentary,
scholastic sophists." Bp. Warburton.

2. Characterized by, or requiring, much sitting; as, a sedentary
employment; a sedentary life.
Any education that confined itself to sedentary pursuits was
essentially imperfect. Beaconsfield.

3. Inactive; motionless; sluggish; hence, calm; tranquil. [R.] "The
sedentary earth." Milton.
The soul, considered abstractly from its passions, is of a remiss,
sedentary nature. Spectator.

4. Caused by long sitting. [Obs.] "Sedentary numbness." Milton.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Remaining in one place, especially when firmly attached to some
object; as, the oyster is a sedentary mollusk; the barnacles are
sedentary crustaceans. Sedentary spider (Zoöl.), one of a tribe of
spiders which rest motionless until their prey is caught in their
web.

SEDERUNT
Se*de"runt, n. Etym: [L., they sat, fr. sedere to sit.]

Defn: A sitting, as of a court or other body.
'T is pity we have not Burn's own account of that long sederunt.
Prof. Wilson.
Acts of sederunt (Scots Law), ordinances of the Court of Session for
the ordering of processes and expediting of justice. Bell.

SEDGE
Sedge, n. Etym: [OE. segge, AS. secg; akin to LG. segge; -- probably
named from its bladelike appearance, and akin to L. secare to cut, E.
saw a cutting instrument; cf. Ir. seisg, W. hesg. Cf. Hassock, Saw
the instrument.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs,
often growing in dense tufts in marshy places. They have triangular
jointless stems, a spiked inflorescence, and long grasslike leaves
which are usually rough on the margins and midrib. There are several
hundred species.

Note: The name is sometimes given to any other plant of the order
Cyperaceæ, which includes Carex, Cyperus, Scirpus, and many other
genera of rushlike plants.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A flock of herons. Sedge ken (Zoöl.), the clapper rail. See
under 5th Rail.
 -- Sedge warbler (Zoöl.), a small European singing bird
(Acrocephalus phragmitis). It often builds its nest among reeds; --
called also sedge bird, sedge wren, night warbler, and Scotch
nightingale.

SEDGED
Sedged, a.

Defn: Made or composed of sedge.
With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks. Shak.

SEDGY
Sedg"y, a.

Defn: Overgrown with sedge.
On the gentle Severn''s sedgy bank. Shak.

SEDILIA
Se*dil"i*a, n. pl.; sing. Sedile (. Etym: [L. sedile a seat.] (Arch.)

Defn: Seats in the chancel of a church near the altar for the
officiating clergy during intervals of service. Hook.

SEDIMENT
Sed"i*ment, n. Etym: [F. sédiment, L. sedimentum a settling, fr.
sedere to sit, to settle. See Sit.]

1. The matter which subsides to the bottom, frrom water or any other
liquid; settlings; lees; dregs.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.

SEDIMENTAL
Sed`i*men"tal, a.

Defn: Sedimentary.

SEDIMENTARY
Sed`i*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sédimentaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to sediment; formed by sediment; containing
matter that has subsided. Sedimentary rocks. (Geol.) See Aqueous
rocks, under Aqueous.

SEDIMENTATION
Sed`i*men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of depositing a sediment; specifically (Geol.), the
deposition of the material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.

SEDITION
Se*di"tion, n. Etym: [OE. sedicioun, OF. sedition, F. sédition, fr.
L. seditio, originally, a going aside; hence, an insurrectionary
separation; pref. se-, sed-, aside + itio a going, fr. ire, itum, to
go. Cf. Issue.]

1. The raising of commotion in a state, not amounting to
insurrection; conduct tending to treason, but without an overt act;
excitement of discontent against the government, or of resistance to
lawful authority.
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate The cockle of
rebellion, insolence, sedition. Shak.
Noisy demagogues who had been accused of sedition. Macaulay.

2. Dissension; division; schism. [Obs.]
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, . . . emulations, wrath,
strife, seditions, heresies. Gal. v. 19, 20.

Syn.
 -- Insurrection; tumult; uproar; riot; rebellion; revolt. See
Insurrection.

SEDITIONARY
Se*di"tion*a*ry, n.

Defn: An inciter or promoter of sedition. Bp. Hall.

SEDITIOUS
Se*di"tious, a.Etym: [L. seditiosus: cf. F. séditieux.]

1. Of or pertaining to sedition; partaking of the nature of, or
tending to excite, sedition; as, seditious behavior; seditious
strife; seditious words.

2. Disposed to arouse, or take part in, violent opposition to lawful
authority; turbulent; factious; guilty of sedition; as, seditious
citizens.
 -- Se*di"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Se*di"tious*ness, n.

SEDLITZ
Sed"litz, a.

Defn: Same as Seidlitz.

SEDUCE
Se*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seduced; p. pr. & vb. n. Seducing.]
Etym: [L. seducere, seductum; pref. se- aside + ducere to lead. See
Duke.]

1. To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty in any manner;
to entice to evil; to lead astray; to tempt and lead to iniquity; to
corrupt.
For me, the gold of France did not seduce. Shak.

2. Specifically, to induce to surrender chastity; to debauch by means
of solicitation.

Syn.
 -- To allure; entice; tempt; attract; mislead; decoy; inveigle. See
Allure.

SEDUCEMENT
Se*duce"ment, n.

1. The act of seducing.

2. The means employed to seduce, as flattery, promises, deception,
etc.; arts of enticing or corrupting. Pope.

SEDUCER
Se*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, seduces; specifically, one who prevails
over the chastity of a woman by enticements and persuasions.
He whose firm faith no reason could remove, Will melt before that
soft seducer, love. Dryden.

SEDUCIBLE
Se*du"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being seduced; corruptible.

SEDUCING
Se*du"cing, a.

Defn: Seductive. "Thy sweet seducing charms." Cowper.
 -- Se*du"cing*ly, adv.

SEDUCTION
Se*duc*tion, n. Etym: [L. seductio: cf. F. séduction. See Seduce.]

1. The act of seducing; enticement to wrong doing; specifically, the
offense of inducing a woman to consent to unlawful sexual
intercourse, by enticements which overcome her scruples; the wrong or
crime of persuading a woman to surrender her chastity.

2. That which seduces, or is adapted to seduce; means of leading
astray; as, the seductions of wealth.

SEDUCTIVE
Se*duc"tive, a.

Defn: Tending to lead astray; apt to mislead by flattering
appearances; tempting; alluring; as, a seductive offer.
This may enable us to understand how seductive is the influence of
example. Sir W. Hamilton.

SEDUCTIVELY
Se*duc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a seductive manner.

SEDUCTRESS
Se*duc"tress, n.

Defn: A woman who seduces.

SEDULITY
Se*du"li*ty, n. Etym: [L. sedulitas. See Sedulous.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sedulous; diligent and assiduous
application; constant attention; unremitting industry; sedulousness.
The industrious bee, by his sedulity in summer, lives in honey all
the winter. Feltham.

SEDULOUS
Sed"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. sedulus, perhaps from sedere to sit, and so
akin to E. sit.]

Defn: Diligent in application or pursuit; constant, steady, and
persevering in business, or in endeavors to effect an object;
steadily industrious; assiduous; as, the sedulous bee.
What signifies the sound of words in prayer, without the affection of
the heart, and a sedulous application of the proper means that may
naturally lead us to such an end L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Assiduous; diligent; industrious; laborious; unremitting;
untiring; unwearied; persevering.
 -- Sed"u*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Sed"u*lous*ness, n.

SEDUM
Se"dum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sedere to sit; so called in allusion to
the manner in which the plants attach themselves to rocks and walls.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves
and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop. Gray.

SEE
See, n. Etym: [OE. se, see, OF. se, sed, sied, fr. L. sedes a seat,
or the kindred sedere to sit. See Sit, and cf. Siege.]

1. A seat; a site; a place where sovereign power is exercised. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
Jove laughed on Venus from his sovereign see. Spenser.

2. Specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the
jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. (b) The seat of an
archibishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archibishop; as, an
archiepiscopal see. (c) The seat, place, or office of the pope, or
Roman pontiff; as, the papal see. (d) The pope or his court at Rome;
as, to appeal to the see of Rome. Apostolic see. See under Apostolic.

SEE
See, v. t. [imp. Saw; p. p. Seen; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeing.] Etym: [OE.
seen, sen, seon, As. seón; akin to OFries. sia, D. zien, OS. & OHG.
sehan, G. sehen, Icel. sja, Sw. se, Dan. see, Goth. saíhwan, and
probably to L. sequi to follow (and so originally meaning, to follow
with the eyes). Gr. sac. Cf. Sight, Sun to follow.]

1. To perceive by the eye; to have knowledge of the existence and
apparent qualities of by the organs of sight; to behold; to descry;
to view.
I will new turn aside, and see this great sight. Ex. iii. 3.

2. To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or conception of; to
note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish; to
understand; to comprehend; to ascertain.
Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren. Gen.
xxxvii. 14.
Jesus saw that he answered discreetly. Mark xii. 34.
Who 's so gross That seeth not this palpable device Shak.

3. To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch; to regard
attentivelly; to look after. Shak.
I had a mind to see him out, and therefore did not care for
centradicting him. Addison.

4. To have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to
visit; as, to go to see a friend.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul untill the day of his death. 1
Sam. xv. 35.

5. To fall in with; to have intercourse or communication with; hence,
to have knowledge or experience of; as, to see military service.
Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us,
and the years wherein we have seen evil. Ps. xc. 15.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, if a man keep my saying, he shall
never see death. John viii. 51.
Improvement in visdom and prudence by seeing men. Locke.

6. To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as, to see one
home; to see one aboard the cars. God you (him, or me, etc.) see, God
keep you (him, me, etc.) in his sight; God protect you. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
 -- To see (anything) out, to see (it) to the end; to be present at,
or attend, to the end.
 -- To see stars, to see flashes of light, like stars; -- sometimes
the result of concussion of the head. [Colloq.] -- To see (one)
through, to help, watch, or guard (one) to the end of a course or an
undertaking.

SEE
See, v. i.

1. To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs;
to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees distinctly.
Whereas I was blind, now I see. John ix. 25.

2. Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to
know; to understand; to discern; -- often followed by a preposition,
as through, or into.
For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might
see; and that they which see might be made blind. John ix. 39.
Many sagacious persons will find us out, . . . and see through all
our fine pretensions. Tillotson.

3. To be attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to;
as, to see to the house.
See that ye fall not out by the way. Gen. xiv. 24.

Note: Let me see, Let us see, are used to express consideration, or
to introduce the particular consideration of a subject, or some
scheme or calculation.
Cassio's a proper man, let me see now, -To get his place. Shak.

Note: See is sometimes used in the imperative for look, or behold.
"See. see! upon the banks of Boyne he stands." Halifax. To see about
a thing, to pay attention to it; to consider it.
 -- To see on, to look at. [Obs.] "She was full more blissful on to
see." Chaucer.
 -- To see to. (a) To look at; to behold; to view. [Obs.] "An altar
by Jordan, a great altar to see to" Josh. xxii. 10. (b) To take care
about; to look after; as, to see to a fire.

SEECATCH
See"catch, n. [Russ. siekach.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A full-grown male fur seal. [Alaska]

SEED
Seed, n.; pl. Seed or Seeds. Etym: [OE. seed, sed, AS. s, fr. sawan
to sow; akin to D. zaad seed, G. saat, Icel. sa, s, Goth. manas seed
of men. world. See Sow to scatter seed, and cf. Colza.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A ripened ovule, consisting of an embryo with one or more
integuments, or coverings; as, an apple seed; a currant seed. By
germination it produces a new plant.
(b) Any small seedlike fruit, though it may consist of a pericarp, or
even a calyx, as well as the seed proper; as, parsnip seed; thistle
seed.
And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding
seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is
in itself. Gen. i. 11.

Note: The seed proper has an outer and an inner coat, and within
these the kernel or nucleus. The kernel is either the embryo alone,
or the embryo inclosed in the albumen, which is the material for the
nourishment of the developing embryo. The scar on a seed, left where
the stem parted from it, is called the hilum, and the closed orifice
of the ovule, the micropyle.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The generative fluid of the male; semen; sperm; -- not used in
the plural.

3. That from which anything springs; first principle; original;
source; as, the seeds of virtue or vice.

4. The principle of production.
Praise of great acts he scatters as a seed, Which may the like in
coming ages breed. Waller.

5. Progeny; offspring; children; descendants; as, the seed of
Abraham; the seed of David.

Note: In this sense the word is applied to one person, or to any
number collectively, and admits of the plural form, though rarely
used in the plural.

6. Race; generation; birth.
Of mortal seed they were not held. Waller.
Seed bag (Artesian well), a packing to prevent percolation of water
down the bore hole. It consists of a bag encircling the tubing and
filled with flax seed, which swells when wet and fills the space
between the tubing and the sides of the hole.
 -- Seed bud (Bot.), the germ or rudiment of the plant in the embryo
state; the ovule.
 -- Seed coat (Bot.), the covering of a seed.
 -- Seed corn, or Seed grain (Bot.), corn or grain for seed.
 -- Seed down (Bot.), the soft hairs on certain seeds, as cotton
seed.
 -- Seed drill. See 6th Drill, 2 (a).
 -- Seed eater (Zoöl.), any finch of the genera Sporophila, and
Crithagra. They feed mainly on seeds.
 -- Seed gall (Zoöl.), any gall which resembles a seed, formed, on
the leaves of various plants, usually by some species of Phylloxera.
 -- Seed leaf (Bot.), a cotyledon.
 -- Seed lobe (Bot.), a cotyledon; a seed leaf.
 -- Seed oil, oil expressed from the seeds of plants.
 -- Seed oyster, a young oyster, especially when of a size suitable
for transplantation to a new locality.
 -- Seed pearl, a small pearl of little value.
 -- Seed plat, or Seed plot, the ground on which seeds are sown, to
produce plants for transplanting; a nursery.
 -- Seed stalk (Bot.), the stalk of an ovule or seed; a funicle.
 -- Seed tick (Zoöl.), one of several species of ticks resembling
seeds in form and color.
 -- Seed vessel (Bot.), that part of a plant which contains the
seeds; a pericarp.
 -- Seed weevil (Zoöl.), any one of numerous small weevels,
especially those of the genus Apion, which live in the seeds of
various plants.
 -- Seed wool, cotton wool not yet cleansed of its seeds. [Southern
U.S.]

SEED
Seed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seeded; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeding.]

1. To sprinkle with seed; to plant seeds in; to sow; as, to seed a
field.

2. To cover thinly with something scattered; to ornament with
seedlike decorations.
A sable mantle seeded with waking eyes. B. Jonson.
To seed down, to sow with grass seed.

SEEDBOX
Seed"box`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A capsule.
(b) A plant (Ludwigia alternifolia) which has somewhat cubical or
box-shaped capsules.

SEEDCAKE
Seed"cake`, n.

Defn: A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway.
Tusser.

SEEDCOD
Seed"cod`, n.

Defn: A seedlip. [Prov. Eng.]

SEEDER
Seed"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sows or plants seed.

SEEDINESS
Seed`i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being seedy, shabby, or worn out; a
state of wretchedness or exhaustion. [Colloq.] G. Eliot.
What is called seedness, after a debauch, is a plain proof that
nature has been outraged. J. S. Blackie.

SEED-LAC
Seed"-lac`, n.

Defn: A species of lac. See the Note under Lac.

SEEDLESS
Seed"less, a.

Defn: Without seed or seeds.

SEEDLING
Seed"ling, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant reared from the seed, as distinguished from one
propagated by layers, buds, or the like.

SEEDLIP; SEEDLOP
Seed"lip`, Seed"lop`, n. Etym: [AS. s; s seed + leáp basket.]

Defn: A vessel in which a sower carries the seed to be scattered.
[Prov. Eng.]

SEEDMAN
Seed"man, See

Defn: Seedsman.

SEEDNESS
Seed"ness, n.

Defn: Seedtime. [Obs.] Shak.

SEEDSMAN
Seeds"man, n.; pl. Seedsmen (.

1. A sower; one who sows or scatters seed.
The seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain. Shak.

2. A person who deals in seeds.

SEEDTIME
Seed"time`, n. Etym: [AS. s.]

Defn: The season proper for sowing.
While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat,
and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease. Gen. viii.
22.

SEEDY
Seed"y, a. [Compar. Seedier; superl. Seediest.]

1. Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.

2. Having a peculiar flavor supposed to be derived from the weeds
growing among the vines; -- said of certain kinds of FRench brandy.

3. Old and worn out; exhausted; spiritless; also, poor and miserable
looking; shabily clothed; shabby looking; as, he looked seedy coat.
[Colloq.]
Little Flanigan here . . . is a little seedy, as we say among us that
practice the law. Goldsmith. Seedy toe, an affection of a horse's
foot, in which a cavity filled with horn powder is formed between the
laminæ and the wall of the hoof.

SEEING
See"ing, conj.

Defn: (but originally a present participle). In view of the fact
(that); considering; taking into account (that); insmuch as; since;
because; -- followed by a dependent clause; as, he did well, seeing
that he was so young.
Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me Gen. xxvi. 27.

SEEK
Seek, a.

Defn: Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEEK
Seek, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sought; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeking.] Etym:
[OE, seken, AS. s, s; akin to OS. s, LG. söken, D. zoeken, OHG.
suohhan, G. suchen, Icel. s, Sw. söka, Dan. söge, Goth. s, and E.
sake. Cf. Beseech, Ransack, Sagacious, Sake, Soc.]

1. To go in search of; to look for; to search for; to try to find.
The man saked him, saying, What seekest thou And he said, I seek my
brethren. Gen. xxxvii. 15,16.

2. To inquire for; to ask for; to solicit; to bessech.
Others, tempting him, sought of him a sign. Luke xi. 16.

3. To try to acquire or gain; to strive after; to aim at; as, to seek
wealth or fame; to seek one's life.

4. To try to reach or come to; to go to; to resort to.
Seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal. Amos v. 5.
Since great Ulysses sought the Phrygian plains. Pope.

SEEK
Seek, v. i.

Defn: To make search or inquiry: to endeavor to make discovery.
Seek ye out of the book of the Lord, and read. Isa. xxxiv. 16.
To seek, needing to seek or search; hence, unpreparated.
"Unpracticed, unpreparated, and still to seek." Milton. [Obs] -- To
seek after, to make pursuit of; to attempt to find or take.
 -- To seek for, to endeavor to find.
 -- To seek to, to apply to; to resort to; to court. [Obs.] "All the
earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom." 1. Kings x. 24.
 -- To seek upon, to make strict inquiry after; to follow up; to
persecute. [Obs.]
To seek Upon a man and do his soul unrest. Chaucer.

SEEKER
Seek"er, n.

1. One who seeks; that which is used in seeking or searching.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of a small heterogeneous sect of the 17th century, in Great
Britain, who professed to be seeking the true church, ministry, and
sacraments.
A skeptic [is] ever seeking and never finds, like our new upstart
sect of Seekers. Bullokar.

SEEK-NO-FURTHER
Seek"-no-fur`ther, n.

Defn: A kind of choice winter apple, having a subacid taste; --
formerly called go-no-further.

SEEK-SORROW
Seek"-sor`row, n.

Defn: One who contrives to give himself vexation. [Archaic.] Sir P.
Sidney.

SEEL
Seel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seeled; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeling.] Etym:
[F.siller, ciller, fr. cil an eyelash, L. cilium.]

1. (Falconry)

Defn: To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird) by drawing through
the lids threads which were fastened over the head. Bacon.
Fools climbs to fall: fond hopes, like seeled doves for want of
better light, mount till they end their flight with falling. J.
Reading.

2. Hence, to shut or close, as the eyes; to blind.
Come, seeling night, Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day. Shak.
Gold death, with a violent fate, his sable eyes did seel. Chapman.

SEEL
Seel, v. i. Etym: [Cf. LG. sielen to lead off water, F. siller to run
ahead, to make headway, E. sile, v.t.]

Defn: To incline to one side; to lean; to roll, as a ship at sea.
[Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

SEEL; SEELING
Seel, Seel"ing, n.

Defn: The rolling or agitation of a ship in a sterm. [Obs.] Sandys.

SEEL
Seel, n. Etym: [AS. s, from s good, prosperous. See Silly.]

1. Good fortune; favorable opportunity; prosperity. [Obs.] "So have I
seel". Chaucer.

2. Time; season; as, hay seel. [Prov. Eng.]

SEELILY
Seel"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a silly manner. [Obs.]

SEELY
Seel"y, a.

Defn: See Silly. [Obs.] Spenser.

SEEM
Seem, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Seemed; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeming.] Etym:
[OE. semen to seem, to become, befit, AS. s to satisfy, pacify; akin
to Icel. s to honor, to bear with, conform to, s becoming, fit, s to
beseem, to befit, sama to beseem, semja to arrange, settle, put
right, Goth. samjan to please, and to E. same. The sense is probably
due to the adj. seemly. sq. root191. See Same, a., and cf. Seemly.]

Defn: To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to
present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy
as being; to be taken as. "It now seemed probable." Macaulay.
Thou picture of what thou seem'st. Shak.
All seemed well pleased; all seemed, but were not all. Milton.
There is a way which seemeth right unto a man; but the end thereof
are the ways of death. Prov. xiv. 12.
It seems, it appears; it is understood as true; it is said.
A prince of Italy, it seems, entertained his misstress on a great
lake. Addison.

Syn.
 -- To appear; look.
 -- Seem, Appear. To appear has reference to a thing's being
presented to our view; as, the sun appears; to seem is connected with
the idea of semblance, and usually implies an inference of our mind
as to the probability of a thing's being so; as, a storm seems to be
coming. "The story appears to be true," means that the facts, as
presented, go to show its truth; "the story seems to be true," means
that it has the semblance of being so, and we infer that it is true.
"His first and principal care being to appear unto his people such as
he would have them be, and to be such as he appeared." Sir P. Sidney.
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common. Queen. If it be, Why seems it so
particular with thee Ham. Seems, madam! Nay, it is; I know not
"seems." Shak.

SEEM
Seem, v. t.

Defn: To befit; to beseem. [Obs.] Spenser.

SEEMER
Seem"er, n.

Defn: One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or
semblance.
Hence shall we see, If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
Shak.

SEEMING
Seem"ing, a.

Defn: Having a semblance, whether with or without reality; apparent;
specious; befitting; as, seeming friendship; seeming truth.
My lord, you have lost a friend indeed; And I dare swear you borrow
not that face Of seeming sorrow, it is sure your own. Shak.

SEEMING
Seem"ing, n.

1. Appearance; show; semblance; fair appearance; speciousness.
These keep Seeming and savor all the winter long. Shak.

2. Apprehension; judgment. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Nothing more clear unto their seeming. Hooker.
His persuasive words, impregned With reason, to her seeming. Milton.

SEEMINGLY
Seem"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In appearance; in show; in semblance; apparently; ostensibly.
This the father seemingly complied with. Addison.

SEEMINGNESS
Seem"ing*ness, n.

Defn: Semblance; fair appearance; plausibility. Sir K. Digby.

SEEMLESS
Seem"less, a.

Defn: Unseemly. [Obs.] Spenser.

SEEMLILY
Seem"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a seemly manner. [Obs.]

SEEMLINESS
Seem"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being seemly: comeliness; propriety.

SEEMLY
Seem"ly, a. [Compar.Seemlier (; superl. Seeliest.] Etym: [Icel. s,
fr. s becoming, fit; akin to samr same, E. same; the sense being
properly, the same or like, hence, fitting. See Seem, v. i.]

Defn: Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character;
suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous.
He had a seemly nose. Chaucer.
I am a woman, lacking wit To make a seemly answer to such persons.
Shak.
Suspense of judgment and exercise of charity were safer and seemlier
for Christian men than the hot pursuit of these controversies.
Hooker.

Syn.
 -- Becoming; fit; suitable; proper; appropriate; congruous; meet;
decent; decorous.

SEEMLY
Seem"ly, adv. [Compar. Seemlier; superl. Seemliest.]

Defn: In a decent or suitable manner; becomingly.
Suddenly a men before him stood, Not rustic as before, but seemlier
clad, As one in city or court or place bred. Milton.

SEEMLYHED
Seem"ly*hed, n. Etym: [See -hood.]

Defn: Comely or decent appearance. [Obs.] Rom. of R. Spenser.

SEEN
Seen, p. p.

Defn: of See.

SEEN
Seen, a.

Defn: Versed; skilled; accomplished. [Obs.]
Well seen in every science that mote be. Spenser.
Noble Boyle, not less in nature seen, Than his great brother read in
states and men. Dryden.

SEEP; SIPE
Seep, or; Sipe, v. i. Etym: [AS. sipan to distill.]

Defn: To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.
[Scot. & U. S.]
Water seeps up through the sidewalks. G. W. Cable.

SEEPAGE; SIPAGE
Seep"age, or; Sip"age, n.

Defn: Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil. [Scot. & U.
S.]

SEEPY; SIPY
Seep"y, or; Sip"y, a.

Defn: Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well
drained.

SEER
Seer, a.

Defn: Sore; painful. [Prov. Eng.] Ray.

SEER
Se"er, n.

Defn: One who sees. Addison.

SEER
Seer, n. Etym: [From See.]

Defn: A person who foresees events; a prophet. Milton.

SEERESS
Seer"ess, n.

Defn: A female seer; a prophetess.

SEERFISH
Seer"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A scombroid food fish of Maderia (Cybium Commersonii).

SEERHAND
Seer"hand, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of muslin of a texture between nainsook and mull.

SEERSHIP
Seer"ship, n.

Defn: The office or quality of a seer.

SEERSUCKER
Seer"suck`er, n.

Defn: A light fabric, originally made in the East Indies, of silk and
linen, usually having alternating stripes, and a slightly craped or
puckered surface; also, a cotton fabric of similar appearance.

SEERWOOD
Seer"wood`, n. Etym: [See Sear.]

Defn: Dry wood. [Written also searwood.] [Obs.] Dryden.

SEESAW
See"saw`, n. Etym: [Probably a reduplication of saw, to express the
alternate motion to and fro, as in the act of sawing.]

1. A play among children in which they are seated upon the opposite
ends of a plank which is balanced in the middle, and move alternately
up and down.

2. A plank or board adjusted for this play.

3. A vibratory or reciprocating motion.
He has been arguing in a circle; there is thus a seesaw between the
hypothesis and fact. Sir W. Hamilton.

4. (Whist.)

Defn: Same as Crossruff.

SEESAW
See"saw`, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Seesawad; p. pr. & vb. n. Seesawing.]

Defn: To move with a reciprocating motion; to move backward and
forward, or upward and downward.

SEESAW
See"saw`, v. t.

Defn: To cause to move backward and forward in seesaw fashion.
He seesaws himself to and fro. Ld. Lytton.

SEESAW
See"saw`, a.

Defn: Moving up and down, or to and fro; having a reciprocating
motion.

SEET
Seet, obs. imp. of Sit.

Defn: Sate; sat. Chaucer.

SEETH
Seeth, obs.

Defn: imp. of Seethe. Chaucer.

SEETHE
Seethe, v. t. [imp. Seethed (Sod (, obs.); p. p. Seethed, Sodden (;
p. pr. & vb. n. Seething.] Etym: [OE. sethen, AS. seó; akin to D.
sieden, OHG. siodan, G. sieden, Icel. sj, Sw. sjuda, Dan. syde, Goth.
saubs a burnt offering. Cf. Sod, n., Sodden, Suds.]

Defn: To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to
seethe flesh. [Written also seeth.]
Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage for the sons of the
prophets. 2 Kings iv. 38.

SEETHE
Seethe, v. i.

Defn: To be a state of ebullition or violent commotion; to be hot; to
boil. 1 Sam. ii. 13.
A long Pointe, round which the Mississippi used to whirl, and seethe,
and foam. G. W. Cable.

SEETHER
Seeth"er, n.

Defn: A pot for boiling things; a boiler.
Like burnished gold the little seether shone. Dryden.

SEG
Seg, n. Etym: [See Sedge.] (Bot.)

1. Sedge. [Obs.]

2. The gladen, and other species of Iris. Prior.

SEG
Seg, n. Etym: [Probably from the root of L. secare to cut.]

Defn: A castrated bull. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell.

SEGAR
Se*gar", n.

Defn: See Cigar.

SEGGAR
Seg"gar, n. Etym: [Prov. E. saggard a seggar, seggard a sort of
riding surtout, contr. fr. safeguard.]

Defn: A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is
inclosed while baking in the kin. [Written also saggar, sagger, and
segger.] Ure.

SEGGE
Segge, n. (Zoöl.

Defn: The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SEGMENT
Seg"ment, n. Etym: [L. segmentum, fr. secare to cut, cut off: cf. F.
segment. See Saw a cutting instrument.]

1. One of the parts into which any body naturally separates or is
divided; a part divided or cut off; a section; a portion; as, a
segment of an orange; a segment of a compound or divided leaf.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A part cut off from a figure by a line or plane; especially,
that part of a circle contained between a chord and an arc of that
circle, or so much of the circle as is cut off by the chord; as, the
segment acb in the Illustration.

3. (Mach.)
(a) A piece in the form of the sector of a circle, or part of a ring;
as, the segment of a sectional fly wheel or flywheel rim.
(b) A segment gear.

4. (Biol.)
(a) One of the cells or division formed by segmentation, as in egg
cleavage or in fissiparous cell formation.
(b) One of the divisions, rings, or joints into which many animal
bodies are divided; a somite; a metamere; a somatome. Segment gear, a
piece for receiving or communicating reciprocating motion from or to
a cogwheel, consisting of a sector of a circular gear, or ring,
having cogs on the periphery, or face.
 -- Segment of a line, the part of a line contained between two
points on it.
 -- Segment of a sphere, the part of a sphere cut off by a plane, or
included between two parallel planes.
 -- Ventral segment. (Acoustics) See Loor, n., 5.

SEGMENT
Seg"ment, v. i. (Biol.)

Defn: To divide or separate into parts in growth; to undergo
segmentation, or cleavage, as in the segmentation of the ovum.

SEGMENTAL
Seg*men"tal, a.

1. Relating to, or being, a segment.

2. (Anat. & Zoöl.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the segments of animals; as, a segmental
duct; segmental papillæ.
(b) Of or pertaining to the segmental organs. Segmental duct (Anat.),
the primitive duct of the embryonic excretory organs which gives rise
to the Wolffian duct and ureter; the pronephric duct.
 -- Segmental organs. (a) (Anat.) The embryonic excretory organs of
vertebrates, consisting primarily of the segmental tubes and
segmental ducts. (b) (Zoöl.) The tubular excretory organs, a pair of
which often occur in each of several segments in annelids. They serve
as renal organs, and often, also, as oviducts and sperm ducts. See
Illust. under Sipunculacea.
 -- Segmental tubes (Anat.), the tubes which primarily open into the
segmental duct, some of which become the urinary tubules of the
adult.

SEGMENTATION
Seg`men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of dividing into segments; specifically
(Biol.), a self-division into segments as a result of growth; cell
cleavage; cell multiplication; endogenous cell formation.
Segmentation cavity (Biol.), the cavity formed by the arrangement of
the cells in segmentation or cleavage of the ovum; the cavity of the
blastosphere. In the gastrula stage, the segmentation cavity in which
the mesoblast is formed lies between the entoblast and ectoblast. See
Illust. of Invagination.
 -- Segmentation nucleus (Biol.), the body formed by fusion of the
male and female pronucleus in an impregnated ovum. See the Note under
Pronucleus.
 -- Segmentation of the ovum, or Egg cleavage (Biol.), the process by
which the embryos of all the higher plants and animals are derived
from the germ cell. In the simplest case, that of small ova destitute
of food yolk, the ovum or egg divides into two similar halves or
segments (blastomeres), each of these again divides into two, and so
on, thus giving rise to a mass of cells (mulberry mass, or morula),
all equal and similar, from the growth and development of which the
future animal is to be formed. This constitutes regular segmentation.
Quite frequently, however, the equality and regularity of cleavage is
interfered with by the presence of food yolk, from which results
unequal segmentation. See Holoblastic, Meroblastic, Alecithal,
Centrolecithal, Ectolecithal, and Ovum.
 -- Segmentation sphere (Biol.), the blastosphere, or morula. See
Morula.

SEGMENTED
Seg"ment*ed, a.

Defn: Divided into segments or joints; articulated.

SEGNITUDE; SEGNITY
Seg"ni*tude, Seg"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. segnitas, fr. segnis slow,
sluggish.]

Defn: Sluggishness; dullness; inactivity. [Obs.]

SEGNO
Se"gno, n. Etym: [It. See Sign.] (Mus.)

Defn: A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno.

SEGO
Se"go, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North
America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the
Mormons.

SEGREGATE
Seg"re*gate, a. Etym: [L. segregatus, p. p. of segregare to separate;
pref. se- aside + grex, gregis, a flock or herd. See Gregarious.]

1. Separate; select.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Separated from others of the same kind.

SEGREGATE
Seg"re*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Segregated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Segregating.]

Defn: To separate from others; to set apart.
They are still segregated, Christians from Christians, under odious
designations. I. Taylor.

SEGREGATE
Seg"re*gate, v. i. (Geol.)

Defn: To separate from a mass, and collect together about centers or
along lines of fracture, as in the process of crystallization or
solidification.

SEGREGATION
Seg`re*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. segregatio: cf. F. ségrégation.]

1. The act of segregating, or the state of being segregated;
separation from others; a parting.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Separation from a mass, and gathering about centers or into
cavities at hand through cohesive attraction or the crystallizing
process.

SEICHES
Seiches, n. pl. Etym: [F.] (Geol.)

Defn: Local oscillations in level observed in the case of some lakes,
as Lake Geneva.

SEID
Seid, n. Etym: [Ar seyid prince.]

Defn: A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew
Ali.

SEIDLITZ
Seid"litz, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Seidlitz, a village in Bohemia. [Written
also Sedlitz.] Seidlitz powders, effervescing salts, consisting of
two separate powders, one of which contains forty grains of sodium
bicarbonate mixed with two drachms of RochellRochelle powders.
 -- Seidlitz water, a natural water from Seidlitz, containing
magnesium, sodium, calcium, and potassium sulphates, with calcium
carbonate and a little magnesium chloride. It is used as an aperient.

SEIGH
Seigh,

Defn: obs. imp. sing. of See. Saw. Chaucer.

SEIGNEURIAL
Seign*eu"ri*al, a. Etym: [F., fr. seigneur. See Seignior.]

1. Of or pertaining to the lord of a manor; manorial. Sir W. Temple.

2. Vested with large powers; independent.

SEIGNIOR
Seign"ior, n. Etym: [OF. seignor, F. seigneur, cf. It. signore, Sp.
señor from an objective case of L. senier elder. See Senior.]

1. A lord; the lord of a manor.

2. A title of honor or of address in the South of Europe,
corresponding to Sir or Mr. in English. Grand Seignior, the sultan of
Turkey.

SEIGNIORAGE
Seign"ior*age, n. Etym: [F. seigneuriage, OF. seignorage.]

1. Something claimed or taken by virtue of sovereign prerogative;
specifically, a charge or toll deducted from bullion brought to a
mint to be coined; the difference between the cost of a mass of
bullion and the value as money of the pieces coined from it.
If government, however, throws the expense of coinage, as is
reasonable, upon the holders, by making a charge to cover the expense
(which is done by giving back rather less in coin than has been
received in bullion, and is called "levying a seigniorage"), the coin
will rise to the extent of the seigniorage above the value of the
bullion. J. S. Mill.

2. A share of the receipts of a business taken in payment for the use
of a right, as a copyright or a patent.

SEIGNIORAL
Seign"ior*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a seignior; seigneurial. "Kingly or
seignioral patronage." Burke.

SEIGNIORALTY
Seign"ior*al*ty, n.

Defn: The territory or authority of a seignior, or lord. Milman.

SEIGNIORIAL
Seign*io"ri*al, a.

Defn: Same as Seigneurial.

SEIGNIORIZE
Seign"ior*ize, v. t.

Defn: To lord it over. [Obs.]
As proud as he that seigniorizeth hell. Fairfax.

SEIGNIORY
Seign"ior*y, n.; pl. -ies. Etym: [OE. seignorie, OF. seigneurie, F.
seigneurie; cf. It. signoria.]

1. The power or authority of a lord; dominion.
O'Neal never had any seigniory over that country but what by
encroachment he got upon the English. Spenser.

2. The territory over which a lord holds jurisdiction; a manor.
[Written also seigneury, and seignory.]

SEINE
Seine, n. Etym: [F. seine, or AS. segene, bsagena, Gr. (Fishing.)

Defn: A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and
the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its
ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish. Seine
boat, a boat specially constructed to carry and pay out a seine.

SEINER
Sein"er, n.

Defn: One who fishes with a seine.

SEINING
Sein"ing, n.

Defn: Fishing with a seine.

SEINT
Seint, n. Etym: [See Cincture.]

Defn: A girdle. [Obs.] "Girt with a seint of silk." Chaucer.

SEINT
Seint, n.

Defn: A saint. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEINTUARY
Sein"tu*a*ry, n.

Defn: Sanctuary. [Obs.]

SEIRFISH
Seir"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Seerfish.

SEIROSPORE
Sei"ro*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of several spores arranged in a chain as in certain algæ of
the genus Callithamnion.

SEISE
Seise, v. t.

Defn: See Seize. Spenser.

Note: This is the common spelling in the law phrase to be seised of
(an estate).

SEISIN
Sei"sin, n.

Defn: See Seizin. Spenser.

SEISMIC; SEISMAL
Seis"mic, Seis"mal, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake.
Seismic vertical, the point upon the earth's surface vertically over
the center of effort or focal point whence the earthquake's impulse
proceeds, or the vertical line connecting these two points.

SEISMOGRAM
Seis"mo*gram, n. [Gr.  earthquake + -gram.] (Physics)

Defn: The trace or record of an earth tremor, made by means of a
seismograph.

SEISMOGRAPH
Seis"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physics)

Defn: An apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motions
of earthquakes.

SEISMOGRAPHIC
Seis`mo*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a seismograph; indicated by a seismograph.

SEISMOGRAPHY
Seis*mog"ra*phy, n.

1. A writing about, or a description of, earthquakes.

2. The art of registering the shocks and undulatory movements of
earthquakes.

SEISMOLOGICAL
Seis`mo*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to seismology.
 -- Seis`mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

SEISMOLOGY
Seis*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of earthquakes.

SEISMOMETER
Seis*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the direction, duration, and force
of earthquakes and like concussions.

SEISMOMETRIC
Seis`mo*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to seismometry, or seismometer; as,
seismometric instruments; seismometric measurements.

SEISMOMETRY
Seis*mom"e*try, n.

Defn: The mensuration of such phenomena of earthquakes as can be
expressed in numbers, or by their relation to the coördinates of
space.

SEISMOSCOPE
Seis"mo*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: A seismometer.

SEITY
Se"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. se one's self.]

Defn: Something peculiar to one's self. [R.] Tatler.

SEIZABLE
Seiz"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be seized.

SEIZE
Seize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seized; p. pr. & vb. n. Seizing.] Etym:
[OE. seisen, saisen, OF. seisir, saisir, F. saisir, of Teutonic
origin, and akin to E. set. The meaning is properly, to set, put,
place, hence, to put in possession of. See Set, v. t.]

1. To fall or rush upon suddenly and lay hold of; to gripe or grasp
suddenly; to reach and grasp.
For by no means the high bank he could seize. Spenser.
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands The royalties and rights
of banished Hereford Shak.

2. To take possession of by force.
At last they seize The scepter, and regard not David's sons. Milton.

3. To invade suddenly; to take sudden hold of; to come upon suddenly;
as, a fever seizes a patient.
Hope and deubt alternate seize her seul. Pope.

4. (law)

Defn: To take possession of by virtue of a warrant or other legal
authority; as, the sheriff seized the debtor's goods.

5. To fasten; to fix. [Obs.]
As when a bear hath seized her cruel claws Upon the carcass of some
beast too weak. Spenser.

6. To grap with the mind; to comprehend fully and distinctly; as, to
seize an idea.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: To bind or fasten together with a lashing of small stuff, as
yarn or marline; as, to seize ropes.

Note: This word, by writers on law, is commonly written seise, in the
phrase to be seised of (an estate), as also, in composition,
disseise, disseisin. To be seized of, to have possession, or right of
possession; as, A B was seized and possessed of the manor of Dale.
"Whom age might see seized of what youth made prize." Chapman.
 -- To seize on or upon, to fall on and grasp; to take hold on; to
take possession of suddenly and forcibly.

Syn.
 -- To catch; grasp; clutch; snatch; apprehend; arrest; take;
capture.

SEIZER
Seiz"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, seizes.

SEIZIN
Sei"zin, n. Etym: [F. saisine. See Seize.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be
either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession,
the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction
of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership.
Burrill.

2. The act of taking possession. [Obs.]

3. The thing possessed; property. Sir M. Halle.

Note: Commonly spelt by writers on law seisin. Livery of seizin.
(Eng. Law) See Note under Livery, 1.

SEIZING
Seiz"ing, n.

1. The act of taking or grasping suddenly.

2. (Naut.)
(a) The operation of fastening together or lashing.
(b) The cord or lashing used for such fastening.

SEIZOR
Sei"zor, n. (Law)

Defn: One who seizes, or takes possession.

SEIZURE
Sei"zure, n.

1. The act of seizing, or the state of being seized; sudden and
violent grasp or gripe; a taking into possession; as, the seizure of
a thief, a property, a throne, etc.

2. Retention within one's grasp or power; hold; possession;
ownership.
Make o'er thy honor by a deed of trust, And give me seizure of the
mighty wealth. Dryden.

3. That which is seized, or taken possession of; a thing laid hold
of, or possessed.

SEJANT; SEJEANT
Se"jant, Se"jeant, a. Etym: [F. séant, p. pr. of seoir to sit, L.
sedere.] (Her.)

Defn: Sitting, as a lion or other beast. Sejant rampant, sitting with
the forefeet lifted up. Wright.

SEJEIN
Se*jein", v. t. Etym: [L. sejungere; pref. se- aside + jungere to
join. See Join.]

Defn: To separate. [Obs.]

SEJUNCTION
Se*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. sejunctio. See Sejoin.]

Defn: The act of disjoining, or the state of being disjoined. [Obs.]
Bp. Pearson.

SEJUNGIBLE
Se*jun"gi*ble, a. Etym: [See Sejoin.]

Defn: Capable of being disjoined. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

SEKE
Seke, a.

Defn: Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEKE
Seke, v. t. & i.

Defn: To seek. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEKES
Se"kes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities
were inclosed.

SELACHIAN
Se*la"chi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Selachii. See Illustration in Appendix.

SELACHII
Se*la"chi*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of elasmobranchs including the sharks and rays; the
Plagiostomi. Called also Selacha, Selache, and Selachoidei.

SELACHOIDEI
Sel`a*choi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Selachii, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Selachii.

SELACHOSTOMI
Sel`a*chos"to*mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Selachii, and Stoma.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of ganoid fishes which includes the paddlefish, in
which the mouth is armed with small teeth.

SELAGINELLA
Sel`a*gi*nel"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. selago, -inis, a kind of
plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cryptogamous plants resembling Lycopodia, but
producing two kinds of spores; also, any plant of this genus. Many
species are cultivated in conservatories.

SELAH
Se"lah, n. Etym: [Heb. selah.] (Script.)

Defn: A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms;
by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical
performance of the song.
Beyond the fact that Selach is a musical term, we know absolutely
nothing about it. Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.)

SELCOUTH
Sel"couth, n. Etym: [AS. selc, seldc; seld rare + c known. See
Uncouth.]

Defn: Rarely known; unusual; strange. [Obs.]
[She] wondered much at his so selcouth case. Spenser.

SELD
Seld, a. Etym: [See Seldom.]

Defn: Rare; uncommon; unusual. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

SELD
Seld, adv.

Defn: Rarely; seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SELDEN
Sel"den, adv.

Defn: Seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SELDOM
Sel"dom, adv. [Usually, compar. More seldom (; superl. Most seldom (;
but sometimes also, Seldomer (, Seldomest.] Etym: [AS. seldan,
seldon, seldum, fr. seld rare; akin to OFries. sielden, D. zelden, G.
selten, OHG. seltan, Icel. sjaldan, Dan. sielden, Sw. sällan, Goth.
sildaleiks marvelous.]

Defn: Rarely; not often; not frequently.
Wisdom and youth are seldom joined in one. Hooker.

SELDOM
Sel"dom, a.

Defn: Rare; infrequent. [Archaic.] "A suppressed and seldom anger."
Jer. Taylor.

SELDOMNESS
Sel"dom*ness, n.

Defn: Rareness. Hooker.

SELDSEEN
Seld"seen`, a. Etym: [AS. seldsiene.]

Defn: Seldom seen. [Obs.] Drayton.

SELDSHEWN
Seld"shewn`, a. Etym: [Seld + shown.]

Defn: Rarely shown or exhibited. [Obs.] Shak.

SELECT
Se*lect", a. Etym: [L. selectus, p. p. of seligere to select; pref.
se- aside + levere to gather. See Legend.]

Defn: Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable
or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely
chosen; selected; choice.
A few select spirits had separated from the crowd, and formed a fit
audience round a far greater teacher. Macaulay.

SELECT
Se*lect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Selected; p. pr. & vb. n. Selecting.]

Defn: To choose and take from a number; to take by preference from
among others; to pick out; to cull; as, to select the best authors
for perusal. "One peculiar nation to select." Milton.
The pious chief . . . A hundred youths from all his train selects.
Dryden.

SELECTEDLY
Se*lect"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With care and selection. [R.]

SELECTION
Se*lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. selectio: cf. F. sélection.] .

Defn: The act of selecting, or the state of being selected; choice,
by preference.

2. That which is selected; a collection of things chosen; as, a
choice selection of books. Natural selection. (Biol.) See under
Natural.

SELECTIVE
Se*lect"ive, a.

Defn: Selecting; tending to select.
This selective providence of the Almighty. Bp. Hall.

SELECTMAN
Se*lect"man, n.; pl. Selectmen (.

Defn: One of a board of town officers chosen annually in the New
England States to transact the general public business of the town,
and have a kind of executive authority. The number is usually from
three to seven in each town.
The system of delegated town action was then, perhaps, the same which
was defined in an "order made in 1635 by the inhabitants of
Charlestown at a full meeting for the government of the town, by
selectmen;" the name presently extended throughout New England to
municipal governors. Palfrey.

SELECTNESS
Se*lect"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being select.

SELECTOR
Se*lect"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who selects.

SELENATE
Sel"e*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of selenic acid; -- formerly called also seleniate.

SELENHYDRIC
Sel`en*hy"dric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen selenide, H2Se,
regarded as an acid analogous to sulphydric acid.

SELENIC
Se*len"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sélénique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to selenium; derived from, or containing,
selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the
element has a higher valence as contrasted with selenious compounds.

SELENIDE
Sel"e*nide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of selenium, or a compound regarded as
binary; as, ethyl selenide.

SELENIFEROUS
Sel`e*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Selenium + -ferous. ]

Defn: Containing, or impregnated with, selenium; as, seleniferous
pyrites.

SELENIO-
Se*le"ni*o- (. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence
of selenium or its compounds; as, selenio-phosphate, a phosphate
having selenium in place of all, or a part, of the oxygen.

SELENIOUS
Se*le"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sélénieux.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, selenium; specifically,
designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence
as contrasted with selenic compounds.

SELENITE
Sel"e*nite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of selenious acid.

SELENITE
Sel"e*nite, n. Etym: [L. selenites, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of gypsum, occuring in transparent crystals or
crystalline masses.

SELENITIC; SELENITICAL
Sel`e*nit"ic, Sel`e*nit"ic*al, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to selenite; resembling or containing
selenite.

SELENIUM
Se*le"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. tellurium (from L. tellus the
earth), being, as it were, a companion to it.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nonmetallic element of the sulphur group, and analogous to
sulphur in its compounds. It is found in small quantities with
sulphur and some sulphur ores, and obtained in the free state as a
dark reddish powder or crystalline mass, or as a dark metallic-
looking substance. It exhibits under the action of light a remarkable
variation in electric conductivity, and is used in certain electric
apparatus. Symbol Se. Atomic weight 78.9.

SELENIURET
Sel`e*ni"u*ret, n. (CHem.)

Defn: A selenide. [Obs.]

SELENIURETED
Sel`e*ni"u*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with selenium as in a selenide; as, seleniureted
hydrogen. [Written also seleniuretted.] [Obsoles.]

SELENOCENTRIC
Se*le`no*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. centric.] (Astron.)

Defn: As seen or estimated from the center of the moon; with the moon
central.

SELENOGRAPH
Se*le"no*graph

Defn: , n. A picture or delineation of the moon's surface, or of any
part of it.

SELENOGRAPHER
Sel`e*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One skilled in selenography. Wright.

SELENOGRAPHIC; SELENOGRAPHICAL
Sel`e*no*graph"ic, Sel`e*no*graph"i*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
sélénographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to selenography.

SELENOGRAPHIST
Sel`e*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A selenographer.

SELENOGRAPHY
Sel`e*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The science that treats of the physical features of the moon; -
- corresponding to physical geography in respect to the earth.
"Accurate selenography, or description of the moon." Sir T. Browne.

SELENOLOGY
Sel`e*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.-logy.]

Defn: That branch of astronomy which treats of the moon.
 -- Sel`e*no*log"i*cal, a.

SELENONIUM
Sel`e*no"ni*um, n. Etym: [Selenium + sulphonium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical of selenium, analogous to sulphonium.
[R.]

SELF
Self, a. Etym: [AS. self, seolf, sylf; akin to OS. self, OFries.
self, D. zelf, G. selb, selber, selbst, Dan. selv. Sw. sjelf, Icel.
sjalfr, Goth. silba. Cf. Selavage.]

Defn: Same; particular; very; identical. [Obs., except in the
compound selfsame.] "On these self hills." Sir. W. Raleigh.
To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first.
Shak.
At that self moment enters Palamon. Dryden.

SELF
Self, n.; pl. Selves (.

1. The individual as the object of his own reflective consciousness;
the man viewed by his own cognition as the subject of all his mental
phenomena, the agent in his own activities, the subject of his own
feelings, and the possessor of capacities and character; a person as
a distinct individual; a being regarded as having personality. "Those
who liked their real selves." Addison.
A man's self may be the worst fellow to converse with in the world.
Pope.
The self, the I, is recognized in every act of intelligence as the
subject to which that act belongs. It is I that perceive, I that
imagine, I that remember, I that attend, I that compare, I that feel,
I that will, I that am conscious. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. Hence, personal interest, or love of private interest;
selfishness; as, self is his whole aim.

3. Personification; embodiment. [Poetic.]
She was beauty's self. Thomson.

Note: Self is united to certain personal pronouns and pronominal
adjectives to express emphasis or distinction. Thus, for emphasis; I
myself will write; I will examine for myself; thou thyself shalt go;
thou shalt see for thyself; you yourself shall write; you shall see
for yourself; he himself shall write; he shall examine for himself;
she herself shall write; she shall examine for herself; the child
itself shall be carried; it shall be present itself. It is also used
reflexively; as, I abhor myself; thou enrichest thyself; he loves
himself; she admires herself; it pleases itself; we walue ourselves;
ye hurry yourselves; they see themselves. Himself, herself,
themselves, are used in the nominative case, as well as in the
objective. "Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples." John iv.
2.

Note: Self is used in the formation of innumerable compounds, usually
of obvious signification, in most of which it denotes either the
agent or the object of the action expressed by the word with which it
is joined, or the person in behalf of whom it is performed, or the
person or thing to, for, or towards whom or which a quality,
attribute, or feeling expressed by the following word belongs, is
directed, or is exerted, or from which it proceeds; or it denotes the
subject of, or object affected by, such action, quality, attribute,
feeling, or the like; as, self-abandoning, self-abnegation, self-
abhorring, self-absorbed, self-accusing, self-adjusting, self-
balanced, self-boasting, self-canceled, self-combating, self-
commendation, self-condemned, self-conflict, self-conquest, self-
constituted, self-consumed, self-contempt, self-controlled, self-
deceiving, self-denying, self-destroyed, self-disclosure, self-
display, self-dominion, self-doomed, self-elected, self-evolved,
self-exalting, self-excusing, self-exile, self-fed, self-fulfillment,
self-governed, self-harming, self-helpless, self-humiliation, self-
idolized, self-inflicted, self-improvement, self-instruction, self-
invited, self-judging, self-justification, self-loathing, self-
loving, self-maintenance, self-mastered, self-nourishment, self-
perfect, self-perpetuation, self-pleasing, self-praising, self-
preserving, self-questioned, self-relying, self-restraining, self-
revelation, self-ruined, self-satisfaction, self-support, self-
sustained, self-sustaining, self-tormenting, self-troubling, self-
trust, self-tuition, self-upbraiding, self-valuing, self-worshiping,
and many others.

SELF-ABASED
Self`-a*based", a.

Defn: Humbled by consciousness of inferiority, unworthiness, guilt,
or shame.

SELF-ABASEMENT
Self`-a*base"ment, n.

1. Degradation of one's self by one's own act.

2. Humiliation or abasement proceeding from consciousness of
inferiority, guilt, or shame.

SELF-ABASING
Self`-a*bas"ing, a.

Defn: Lowering or humbling one's self.

SELF-ABHORRENCE
Self`-ab*hor"rence, n.

Defn: Abhorrence of one's self.

SELF-ABNEGATION
Self`-ab`ne*ga"tion, n.

Defn: Self-denial; self-renunciation; self-sacrifice.

SELF-ABUSE
Self`-abuse", n.

1. The abuse of one's own self, powers, or faculties.

2. Self-deception; delusion. [Obs.] Shak.

3. Masturbation; onanism; self-pollution.

SELF-ACCUSED
Self"-ac*cused", a.

Defn: Accused by one's self or by one's conscience. "Die self-
accused." Cowper.

SELF-ACTING
Self`-act"ing, a.

Defn: Acting of or by one's self or by itself; -- said especially of
a machine or mechanism which is made to perform of or for itself what
is usually done by human agency; automatic; as, a self-acting feed
apparatus; a self-acting mule; a self-acting press.

SELF-ACTION
Self`-ac"tion, n.

Defn: Action by, or originating in, one's self or itself.

SELF-ACTIVE
Self`-ac"tive, a.

Defn: Acting of one's self or of itself; acting without depending on
other agents.

SELF-ACTIVITY
Self`-ac*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-active; self-action.

SELF-ADJUSTING
Self`-ad*just"ing, a. (Mach.)

Defn: Capable of assuming a desired position or condition with
relation to other parts, under varying circumstances, without
requiring to be adjusted by hand; -- said of a piece in machinery.
Self-adjusting bearing (Shafting), a bearing which is supported in
such a manner that it may tip to accomodate flexure or displacement
of the shaft.

SELF-ADMIRATION
Self`-ad`mi*ra"tion, n.

Defn: Admiration of one's self.

SELF-AFFAIRS
Self`-af*fairs", n. pl.

Defn: One's own affairs; one's private business. [Obs.] Shak.

SELF-AFFRIGHTED
Self`-af*fright"ed, a.

Defn: Frightened at or by one's self. Shak.

SELF-AGGRANDIZEMENT
Self`-ag*gran"dize*ment, n.

Defn: The aggrandizement of one's self.

SELF-ANNIHILATED
Self`-an*ni"hi*la`ted, a.

Defn: Annihilated by one's self.

SELF-ANNIHILATION
Self`-an*ni`hi*la"tion, n.

Defn: Annihilation by one's own acts; annihilation of one's desires.
Addison.

SELF-APPLAUSE
Self`-ap*plause", n.

Defn: Applause of one's self.

SELF-APPLYING
Self`-ap*ply"ing, a.

Defn: Applying to or by one's self.

SELF-APPROVING
Self`-ap*prov"ing, a.

Defn: Approving one's own action or character by one's own judgment.
One self-approving hour whole years outweighs Of stupid starers and
of loud huzzas. Pope.

SELF-ASSERTING
Self`-as*sert"ing, a.

Defn: asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; hence,
putting one's self forward in a confident or assuming manner.

SELF-ASSERTION
Self`-as*ser"tion, n.

Defn: The act of asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims;
the quality of being self-asserting.

SELF-ASSERTIVE
Self`-as*sert"ive, a.

Defn: Disposed to self-assertion; self-asserting.

SELF-ASSUMED
Self`-as*sumed`, a.

Defn: Assumed by one's own act, or without authority.

SELF-ASSURED
Self`-as*sured`, a.

Defn: Assured by or of one's self; self-reliant; complacent.

SELF-BANISHED
Self`-ban"ished, a.

Defn: Exiled voluntarily.

SELF-BEGOTTEN
Self"-be*got"ten, a.

Defn: Begotten by one's self, or one's own powers.

SELF-BINDER
Self`-bind"er, n.

Defn: A reaping machine containing mechanism for binding the grain
into sheaves.

SELF-BORN
Self"-born`, a.

Defn: Born or produced by one's self.

SELF-CENTERED; SELF-CENTRED
Self`-cen"tered, Self`-cen"tred, a.

Defn: Centered in itself, or in one's self.
There hangs the ball of earth and water mixt, Self-centered and
unmoved. Dryden.

SELF-CENTERING; SELF-CENTRING
Self`-cen"ter*ing, Self`-cen"tring a.

Defn: Centering in one's self.

SELF-CENTRATION
Self`-cen*tra"tion, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-centered.

SELF-CHARITY
Self`-char"i*ty, n.

Defn: Self-love. [Obs.] Shak.

SELF-COLOR
Self"-col`or, n.

Defn: A color not mixed or variegated.

SELF-COLORED
Self`-col"ored, a.

Defn: Being of a single color; -- applied to flowers, animals, and
textile fabrics.

SELF-COMMAND
Self`-com*mand", n.

Defn: Control over one's own feelings, temper, etc.; self-control.

SELF-COMMUNE
Self`-com*mune", n.

Defn: Self-communion. [R.]

SELF-COMMUNICATIVE
Self`-com*mu"ni*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Imparting or communicating by its own powers.

SELF-COMMUNION
Self`-com*mun"ion, n.

Defn: Communion with one's self; thoughts about one's self.

SELF-COMPLACENCY
Self`-com*pla"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being self-complacent. J. Foster.

SELF-COMPLACENT
Self`-com*pla"cent, a.

Defn: Satisfied with one's own character, capacity, and doings; self-
satisfied.

SELF-CONCEIT
Self`-con*ceit", n.

Defn: Conceit of one's self; an overweening opinion of one's powers
or endowments.

Syn.
 -- See Egotism.

SELF-CONCEITED
Self`-con*ceit"ed, a.

Defn: Having an overweening opinion of one's own powers, attainments;
vain; conceited.
 -- Self`-con*ceit"ed*ness, n.

SELF-CONCERN
Self`-con*cern", n.

Defn: Concern for one's self.

SELF-CONDEMNATION
Self`-con`dem*na"tion, n.

Defn: Condemnation of one's self by one's own judgment.

SELF-CONFIDENCE
Self`-con"fi*dence, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-confident; self-reliance.
A feeling of self-confidence which supported and sustained him.
Beaconsfield.

SELF-CONFIDENT
Self`-con"fi*dent, a.

Defn: Confident of one's own strength or powers; relying on one's
judgment or ability; self-reliant.
 -- Self`-con"fi*dent*ly, adv.

SELF-CONJUGATE
Self`-con"ju*gate, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Having the two things that are conjugate parts of the same
figure; as, self-conjugate triangles.

SELF-CONSCIOUS
Self`-con"scious, a.

1. Conscious of one's acts or state as belonging to, or originating
in, one's self. "My self-conscious worth." Dryden.

2. Conscious of one's self as an object of the observation of others;
as, the speaker was too self-conscious.

SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS
Self`-con"scious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-conscious.

SELF-CONSIDERING
Self`-con*sid"er*ing, a.

Defn: Considering in one's own mind; deliberating. Pope.

SELF-CONSISTENCY
Self`-con*sist"en*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-consistent.

SELF-CONSISTENT
Self`-con*sist"ent, a.

Defn: Consistent with one's self or with itself; not deviation from
the ordinary standard by which the conduct is guided; logically
consistent throughout; having each part consistent with the rest.

SELF-CONSUMING
Self`-con*sum"ing, a.

Defn: Consuming one's self or itself.

SELF-CONTAINED
Self`-con*tained", a.

1. Having self-control; reserved; uncommunicative; wholly engrossed
in one's self.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: Having all the essential working parts connected by a bedplate
or framework, or contained in a case, etc., so that mutual relations
of the parts do not depend upon fastening outside of the machine
itself. Self-contained steam engine. (a) A steam engine having both
bearings for the crank shaft attached to the frame of the engine. (b)
A steam engine and boiler combined and fastened together; a portable
steam engine.

SELF-CONTRADICTION
Self`-con`tra*dic"tion, n.

Defn: The act of contradicting one's self or itself; repugnancy in
conceptions or in terms; a proposition consisting of two members, one
of which contradicts the other; as, to be and not to be at the same
time is a self-contradiction.

SELF-CONTRADICTORY
Self`-con`tra*dict"o*ry, a.

Defn: Contradicting one's self or itself.

SELF-CONTROL
Self`-con*trol", n.

Defn: Control of one's self; restraint exercised over one's self;
self-command.

SELF-CONVICTED
Self`-con*vict"ed, a.

Defn: Convicted by one's own consciousness, knowledge, avowal, or
acts.

SELF-CONVICTION
Self`-con*vic"tion, n.

Defn: The act of convicting one's self, or the state of being self-
convicted.

SELF-CREATED
Self`-cre*at"ed, a.

Defn: Created by one's self; not formed or constituted by another.

SELF-CULTURE
Self`-cul"ture, n.

Defn: Culture, training, or education of one's self by one's own
efforts.

SELF-DECEIT
Self`-de*ceit", n.

Defn: The act of deceiving one's self, or the state of being self-
deceived; self-deception.

SELF-DECEIVED
Self`-de*ceived", a.

Defn: Deceived or misled respecting one's self by one's own mistake
or error.

SELF-DECEPTION
Self`-de*cep"tion, n.

Defn: Self-deceit.

SELF-DEFENCE
Self`-de*fence", n.

Defn: See Self-defense.

SELF-DEFENSE
Self`-de*fense", n.

Defn: The act of defending one's own person, property, or reputation.
In self-defense (Law), in protection of self, -- it being permitted
in law to a party on whom a grave wrong is attempted to resist the
wrong, even at the peril of the life of the assailiant. Wharton.

SELF-DEFENSIVE
Self`-de*fen"sive, a.

Defn: Defending, or tending to defend, one's own person, property, or
reputation.

SELF-DEGRADATION
Self`-deg`ra*da"tion, n.

Defn: The act of degrading one's self, or the state of being so
degraded.

SELF-DELATION
Self`-de*la"tion, n.

Defn: Accusation of one's self. [R.] Milman.

SELF-DELUSION
Self`-de*lu"sion, n.

Defn: The act of deluding one's self, or the state of being thus
deluded.

SELF-DENIAL
Self`-de*ni"al, n.

Defn: The denial of one's self; forbearing to gratify one's own
desires; self-sacrifice.

SELF-DENYING
Self`-de*ny"ing, a.

Defn: Refusing to gratify one's self; self-sacrificing.
 -- Self`-de*ny"ing*ly, adv.

SELF-DEPENDENT
Self`-de*pend"ent, a.

Defn: Dependent on one's self; self-depending; self-reliant.

SELF-DEPENDING
Self`-de*pend"ing, a.

Defn: Depending on one's self.

SELF-DEPRAVED
Self`-de*praved", a.

Defn: Corrupted or depraved by one's self. Milton.

SELF-DESTROYER
Self`-de*stroy"er, n.

Defn: One who destroys himself; a suicide.

SELF-DESTRUCTION
Self`-de*struc"tion, n.

Defn: The destruction of one's self; self-murder; suicide. Milton.

SELF-DESTRUCTIVE
Self`-de*struc"tive, a.

Defn: Destroying, or tending to destroy, one's self or itself;
rucidal.

SELF-DETERMINATION
Self`-de*ter`mi*na"tion, n.

Defn: Determination by one's self; or, determination of one's acts or
states without the necessitating force of motives; -- applied to the
voluntary or activity.

SELF-DETERMINING
Self`-de*ter"min*ing, a.

Defn: Capable of self-determination; as, the self-determining power
of will.

SELF-DEVISED
Self`-de*vised", a.

Defn: Devised by one's self.

SELF-DEVOTED
Self`-de*vot"ed, a.

Defn: Devoted in person, or by one's own will. Hawthorne.

SELF-DEVOTEMENT
Self`-de*vote"ment, n.

Defn: Self-devotion. [R.]

SELF-DEVOTION
Self`-de*vo"tion, n.

Defn: The act of devoting one's self, or the state of being self-
devoted; willingness to sacrifice one's own advantage or happiness
for the sake of others; self-sacrifice.

SELF-DEVOURING
Self`-de*vour"ing, a.

Defn: Devouring one's self or itself. Danham.

SELF-DIFFUSIVE
Self`-dif*fu"sive, a.

Defn: Having power to diffuse itself; diffusing itself. Norris.

SELF-DISCIPLINE
Self`-dis"ci*pline, n.

Defn: Correction or government of one's self for the sake of
improvement.

SELF-DISTRUST
Self`-dis*trust", n.

Defn: Want of confidence in one' self; diffidence.

SELF-EDUCATED
Self`-ed"u*ca`ted, a.

Defn: Educated by one's own efforts, without instruction, or without
pecuniary assistance from others.

SELF-ELECTIVE
Self`-e*lect"ive, a.

Defn: Having the right of electing one's self, or, as a body, of
electing its own members.

SELF-ENJOYMENT
Self`-en*joy"ment, n.

Defn: Enjoyment of one's self; self-satisfaction.

SELF-ESTEEM
Self`-es*teem", n.

Defn: The holding a good opinion of one's self; self-complacency.

SELF-ESTIMATION
Self`-es`ti*ma"tion, n.

Defn: The act of estimating one's self; self-esteem.

SELF-EVIDENCE
Self`-ev"i*dence, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-evident. Locke.

SELF-EVIDENT
Self`-ev"i*dent, a.

Defn: Evident without proof or reasoning; producing certainty or
conviction upon a bare presentation to the mind; as, a self-evident
proposition or truth.
 -- Self`-ev"i*dent*ly, adv.

SELF-EVOLUTION
Self`-ev`o*lu"tion, n.

Defn: Evolution of one's self; development by inherent quality or
power.

SELF-EXALTATION
Self`-ex`al*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of exalting one's self, or the state of being so
exalted.

SELF-EXAMINANT
Self`-ex*am"i*nant, n.

Defn: One who examines himself; one given to self-examination.
The humiliated self-examinant feels that there is evil in our nature
as well as good. Coleridge.

SELF-EXAMINATION
Self`-ex*am`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: An examination into one's own state, conduct, and motives,
particularly in regard to religious feelings and duties.

SELF-EXCITE
Self`-ex*cite", v. t. (Elec.)

Defn: To energize or excite (the field magnets of a dynamo) by
induction from the residual magnetism of its cores, leading all or a
part of the current thus produced through the field-magnet coils.

SELF-EXISTENCE
Self`-ex*ist"ence, n.

Defn: Inherent existence; existence possessed by virtue of a being's
own nature, and independent of any other being or cause; -- an
attribute peculiar to God. Blackmore.

SELF-EXISTENT
Self`-ex*ist"ent, a.

Defn: Existing of or by himself,independent of any other being or
cause; -- as, God is the only self-existent being.

SELF-EXPLAINING
self`-ex*plain"ing, a.

Defn: Explaining itself; capable of being understood without
explanation.

SELF-EXPOSURE
Self`-ex*po"sure, n.

Defn: The act of exposing one's self; the state of being so exposed.

SELF-FERTILIZATION
Self`-fer`ti*li*za"tion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The fertilization of a flower by pollen from the same flower
and without outer aid; autogamy.

SELF-FERTILIZED
Self`-fer"ti*lized, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Fertilized by pollen from the same flower.

SELF-GLORIOUS
Self`-glo"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Springing from vainglory or vanity; vain; boastful. Dryden.

SELF-GOVERNMENT
Self`-gov"ern*ment, n.

1. The act of governing one's self, or the state of being governed by
one's self; self-control; self-command.

2. Hence, government of a community, state, or nation by the joint
action of the mass of people constituting such a civil body; also,
the state of being so governed; democratic government; democracy.
It is to self-government, the great principle of popular
representation and administration, -- the system that lets in all to
participate in the councels that are to assign the good or evil to
all, -- that we may owe what we are and what we hope to be. D.
Webster.

SELF-GRATULATION
Self`-grat`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: Gratulation of one's self.

SELF-HARDENING
Self`-hard"en*ing, a. (Metal.)

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, any of various steels that harden
when heated to above a red heat and cooled in air, usually in a blast
of cold air with moderate rapidity, without quenching. Such steels
are alloys of iron and carbon with manganese, tungsten and manganese,
chromium, molybdenum and manganese, etc. They are chiefly used as
high-speed steels. -- Self`-hard"en*ed, a.

SELF-HEAL
Self`-heal", n. (Bot.)

Defn: A blue-flowered labiate plant (Brunella vulgaris); the healall.

SELF-HEALING
Self`-heal"ing, a.

Defn: Having the power or property of healing itself.

SELF-HELP
Self`-help", n.

Defn: The act of aiding one's self, without depending on the aid of
others.

SELF-HOMICIDE
Self`-hom"i*cide, n.

Defn: The act of killing one's self; suicide. Hakewill.

SELFHOOD
Self"hood, n.

Defn: Existence as a separate self, or independent person; conscious
personality; individuality. Bib. Sacra.

SELF-IGNORANCE
Self`-ig"no*rance, n.

Defn: Ignorance of one's own character, powers, and limitations.

SELF-IGNORANT
Self`-ig"no*rant, a.

Defn: Ignorant of one's self.

SELF-IMPARTING
Self`-im*part"ing, a.

Defn: Imparting by one's own, or by its own, powers and will. Norris.

SELF-IMPORTANCE
Self`-im*por"tance, n.

Defn: An exaggerated estimate of one's own importance or merit, esp.
as manifested by the conduct or manners; self-conceit.

SELF-IMPORTANT
Self`-im*por"tant, a.

Defn: Having or manifesting an exaggerated idea of one's own
importance or merit.

SELF-IMPOSED
Self`-im*posed", a.

Defn: Voluntarily taken on one's self; as, self-imposed tasks.

SELF-IMPOSTURE
Self`-im*pos"ture, n.

Defn: Imposture practiced on one's self; self-deceit. South.

SELF-INDIGNATION
Self`-in`dig*na"tion, n.

Defn: Indignation at one's own character or actions. Baxter.

SELF-INDUCTION
Self`-in*duc"tion, n. (Elec.)

Defn: Induction in a circuit due to the action of one portion of a
current upon an adjacent portion during periods of varying current
strength. The nature of the induction is such as to oppose the action
which produces it.

SELF-INDULGENCE
Self`-in*dul"gence, n.

Defn: Indulgence of one's appetites, desires, or inclinations; -- the
opposite of self-restraint, and self-denial.

SELF-INDULGENT
Self`-in*dul"gent, a.

Defn: Indulging one's appetites, desires, etc., freely.

SELF-INTEREST
Self`-in"ter*est, n.

Defn: Private interest; the interest or advantage of one's self.

SELF-INTERESTED
Self`-in"ter*est*ed, a.

Defn: Particularly concerned for one's own interest or happiness.

SELF-INVOLUTION
Self`-in`vo*lu"tion, n.

Defn: Involution in one's self; hence, abstraction of thought;
reverie.

SELFISH
Self"ish, a.

1. Caring supremely or unduly for one's self; regarding one's own
comfort, advantage, etc., in disregard, or at the expense, of those
of others.
They judge of things according to their own private appetites and
selfish passions. Cudworth.
In that throng of selfish hearts untrue. Keble.

2. (Ethics)

Defn: Believing or teaching that the chief motives of human action
are derived from love of self.
Hobbes and the selfish school of philosophers. Fleming.

SELFISHLY
Self"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a selfish manner; with regard to private interest only or
chiefly.

SELFISHNESS
Self"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being selfish; exclusive regard to
one's own interest or happiness; that supreme self-love or self-
preference which leads a person to direct his purposes to the
advancement of his own interest, power, or happiness, without
regarding those of others.
Selfishness,- a vice utterly at variance with the happiness of him
who harbors it, and, as such, condemned by self-love. Sir J.
Mackintosh.

Syn.
 -- See Self-love.

SELFISM
Self"ism, n.

Defn: Concentration of one's interests on one's self; self-love;
selfishness. Emerson.

SELFIST
Self"ist, n.

Defn: A selfish person. [R.] I. Taylor.

SELF-JUSTIFIER
Self`-jus"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who excuses or justifies himself. J. M. Mason.

SELF-KINDLED
Self`-kin"dled, a.

Defn: Kindled of itself, or without extraneous aid or power. Dryden.

SELF-KNOWING
Self`-know"ing, a.

1. Knowing one's self, or one's own character, powers, and
limitations.

2. Knowing of itself, without help from another.

SELF-KNOWLEDGE
Self`-knowl"edge, n.

Defn: Knowledge of one's self, or of one's own character, powers,
limitations, etc.

SELFLESS
Self"less, a.

Defn: Having no regard to self; unselfish.
Lo now, what hearts have men! they never mount As high as woman in
her selfless mood. Tennyson.

SELFLESSNESS
Self"less*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being selfless.

SELF-LIFE
Self"-life`, n.

Defn: Life for one's self; living solely or chiefly for one's own
pleasure or good.

SELF-LOVE
Self`-love`, n.

Defn: The love of one's self; desire of personal happiness; tendency
to seek one's own benefit or advantage. Shak.
Self-love, the spring of motion, acts the soul. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Selfishness.
 -- Self-love, Selfishness. The term self-love is used in a twofold
sense: 1. It denotes that longing for good or for well-being which
actuates the breasts of all, entering into and characterizing every
special desire. In this sense it has no moral quality, being, from
the nature of the case, neither good nor evil. 2. It is applied to a
voluntary regard for the gratification of special desires. In this
sense it is morally good or bad according as these desires are
conformed to duty or opposed to it. Selfishness is always voluntary
and always wrong, being that regard to our own interests,
gratification, etc., which is sought or indulged at the expense, and
to the injury, of others. "So long as self-love does not degenerate
into selfishness, it is quite compatible with true benevolence."
Fleming. "Not only is the phrase self-love used as synonymous with
the desire of happiness, but it is often confounded with the word
selfishness, which certainly, in strict propriety, denotes a very
different disposition of mind." Slewart.