

STATE
State, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stated; p. pr. & vb. n. Stating.]

1. To set; to settle; to establish. [R.]
I myself, though meanest stated, And in court now almost hated.
Wither.
Who calls the council, states the certain day. Pope.

2. To express the particulars of; to set down in detail or in gross;
to represent fully in words; to narrate; to recite; as, to state the
facts of a case, one's opinion, etc. To state it. To assume state or
dignity. [Obs.] "Rarely dressed up, and taught to state it." Beau. &
Fl.

STATE
State, n.

Defn: A statement; also, a document containing a statement. [R.] Sir
W. Scott.

STATECRAFT
State"craft`, n.

Defn: The art of conducting state affairs; state management;
statesmanship.

STATED
Stat"ed, a.

1. Settled; established; fixed.
He is capable of corruption who receives more than what is the stated
and unquestionable fee of his office. Addison.

2. Recurring at regular time; not occasional; as, stated preaching;
stated business hours.

STATEDLY
Stat"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: At stated times; regularly.

STATEFUL
State"ful, a.

Defn: Full of state; stately. [Obs.] "A stateful silence." Marston.

STATEHOOD
State"hood, n.

Defn: The condition of being a State; as, a territory seeking
Statehood.

STATEHOUSE
State"house`, n.

Defn: The building in which a State legislature holds its sessions; a
State capitol. [U. S.]

STATELESS
State"less, a.

Defn: Without state or pomp.

STATELILY
State"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stately manner.

STATELINESS
State"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stately.
For stateliness and majesty, what is comparable to a horse Dr. H.
More.

STATELY
State"ly, a. [Compar. Statelier; superl. Stateliest.]

Defn: Evincing state or dignity; lofty; majestic; grand; as,
statelymanners; a stately gait. "The stately homes of England!" Mrs.
Hemans. "Filled with stately temples." Prescott.
Here is a stately style indeed! Shak.

Syn.
 -- Lofty; dignified; majestic; grand; august; magnificent.

STATELY
State"ly, adv.

Defn: Majestically; loftily. Milton.

STATEMENT
State"ment, n.

1. The act of stating, reciting, or presenting, orally or in paper;
as, to interrupt a speaker in the statement of his case.

2. That which is stated; a formal embodiment in language of facts or
opinions; a narrative; a recital. "Admirable perspicuity of
statement!" Brougham.

STATEMONGER
State"mon`ger, n.

Defn: One versed in politics, or one who dabbles in state affairs.

STATEPRISON
State`pris"on.

Defn: See under State, n.

STATER
Stat"er, n.

Defn: One who states.

STATER
Sta"ter, n. Etym: [L. stater, Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: The principal gold coin of ancient Grece. It varied much in
value, the stater best known at Athens being worth about £1 2s., or
about $5.35. The Attic silver tetradrachm was in later times called
stater.

STATEROOM
State"room`, n.

1. A magnificent room in a place or great house.

2. A small apartment for lodging or sleeping in the cabin, or on the
deck, of a vessel; also, a somewhat similar apartment in a railway
sleeping car.

STATES-GENERAL
States"-gen"er*al, n.

1. In France, before the Revolution, the assembly of the three orders
of the kingdom, namely, the clergy, the nobility, and the third
estate, or commonalty.

2. In the Netherlands, the legislative body, composed of two
chambers.

STATESMAN
States"man, n.; pl. Statesmen (.

1. A man versed in public affairs and in the principles and art of
government; especially, one eminent for political abilities.
The minds of some of our statesmen, like the pupil of the human eye,
contract themselves the more, the stronger light there is shed upon
them. More.

2. One occupied with the affairs of government, and influental in
shaping its policy.

3. A small landholder. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STATESMANLIKE
States"man*like`, a.

Defn: Having the manner or wisdom of statesmen; becoming a statesman.

STATESMANLY
States"man*ly, a.

Defn: Becoming a statesman.

STATESMANSHIP
States"man*ship, n.

Defn: The qualifications, duties, or employments of a statesman.

STATE SOCIALISM
State socialism.

Defn: A form of socialism, esp. advocated in Germany, which, while
retaining the right of private property and the institution of the
family and other features of the present form of the state, would
intervene by various measures intended to give or maintain equality
of opportunity, as compulsory state insurance, old-age pensions,
etc., answering closely to socialism of the chair.

STATESWOMAN
States"wom`an, n.; pl. Stateswomen (.

Defn: A woman concerned in public affairs.
A rare stateswoman; I admire her bearing. B. Jonson.

STATHMOGRAPH
Stath"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: A contrivance for recording the speed of a railway train.
Knight.

STATIC; STATICAL
Stat"ic, Stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. statique. See Stand, and cf.
Stage.]

1. Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical
pressure; static objects.

2. Pertaining to bodies at rest or in equilibrium. Statical
electricity. See Note under Electricity, 1.
 -- Statical moment. See under Moment.

STATICALLY
Stat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a statical manner.

STATICS
Stat"ics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. statique, Gr. Static.]

Defn: That branch of mechanics which treats of the equilibrium of
forces, or relates to bodies as held at rest by the forces acting on
them; -- distinguished from dynamics. Social statics, the study of
the conditions which concern the existence and permanence of the
social state.

STATING
Stat"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who states anything; statement; as, the
statingof one's opinions.

STATION
Sta"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. statio, from stare, statum, to stand.
See Stand.]

1. The act of standing; also, attitude or pose in standing; posture.
[R.]
A station like the herald, Mercury. Shak.
Their manner was to stand at prayer, whereupon their meetings unto
that purpose . . . had the names of stations given them. Hooker.

2. A state of standing or rest; equilibrium. [Obs.]
All progression is performed by drawing on or impelling forward some
part which was before in station, or at quiet. Sir T. Browne.

3. The spot or place where anything stands, especially where a person
or thing habitually stands, or is appointed to remain for a time; as,
the station of a sentinel. Specifically:
(a) A regular stopping place in a stage road or route; a place where
railroad trains regularly come to a stand, for the convenience of
passengers, taking in fuel, moving freight, etc.
(b) The headquarters of the police force of any precinct.
(c) The place at which an instrument is planted, or observations are
made, as in surveying. (d) (Biol.)

Defn: The particular place, or kind of situation, in which a species
naturally occurs; a habitat. (e) (Naut.)

Defn: A place to which ships may resort, and where they may anchor
safely.
(f) A place or region to which a government ship or fleet is assigned
for duty.
(g) (Mil.) A place calculated for the rendezvous of troops, or for
the distribution of them; also, a spot well adapted for offensive
measures. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.).
(h) (Mining) An enlargement in a shaft or galley, used as a landing,
or passing place, or for the accomodation of a pump, tank, etc.

4. Post assigned; office; the part or department of public duty which
a person is appointed to perform; sphere of duty or occupation;
employment.
By spending this day [Sunday] in religious exercises, we acquire new
strength and resolution to perform God's will in our several stations
the week following. R. Nelson.

5. Situation; position; location.
The fig and date -- why love they to remain In middle station, and an
even plain Prior.

6. State; rank; condition of life; social status.
The greater part have kept, I see, Their station. Milton.
They in France of the best rank and station. Shak.

7. (Eccl.)
(a) The fast of the fourth and sixth days of the week, Wednesday and
Friday, in memory of the council which condemned Christ, and of his
passion.
(b) (R. C. Ch.) A church in which the procession of the clergy halts
on stated days to say stated prayers. Addis & Arnold.
(c) One of the places at which ecclesiastical processions pause for
the performance of an act of devotion; formerly, the tomb of a
martyr, or some similarly consecrated spot; now, especially, one of
those representations of the successive stages of our Lord's passion
which are often placed round the naves of large churches and by the
side of the way leading to sacred edifices or shrines, and which are
visited in rotation, stated services being performed at each; --
called also Station of the cross. Fairholt. Station bill. (Naut.)
Same as Quarter bill, under Quarter.
 -- Station house. (a) The house serving for the headquarters of the
police assigned to a certain district, and as a place of temporary
confinement. (b) The house used as a shelter at a railway station.
 -- Station master, one who has charge of a station, esp. of a
railway station.
 -- Station pointer (Surv.), an instrument for locating on a chart
the position of a place from which the angles subtended by three
distant objects, whose positions are known, have been observed.
 -- Station staff (Surv.), an instrument for taking angles in
surveying. Craig.

Syn.
 -- Station, Depot. In the United States, a stopping place on a
railway for passengers and freight is commonly called a depot: but to
a considerable extent in official use, and in common speech, the more
appropriate name, station, has been adopted.

STATION
Sta"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stationed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stationing.]

Defn: To place; to set; to appoint or assign to the occupation of a
post, place, or office; as, to station troops on the right of an
army; to station a sentinel on a rampart; to station ships on the
coasts of Africa.
He gained the brow of the hill, where the English phalanx was
stationed. Lyttelton.

STATIONAL
Sta"tion*al, a. Etym: [L. stationalis: cf. F. stationnale (église).]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a station. [R.]

STATIONARINESS
Sta"tion*a*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stationary; fixity.

STATIONARY
Sta"tion*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. stationarius: cf. F. stationnaire. Cf.
Stationer.]

1. Not moving; not appearing to move; stable; fixed.
Charles Wesley, who is a more stationary man, does not believe the
story. Southey.

2. Not improving or getting worse; not growing wiser, greater,
better, more excellent, or the contrary.

3. Appearing to be at rest, because moving in the line of vision; not
progressive or retrograde, as a planet. Stationary air (Physiol.),
the air which under ordinary circumstances does not leave the lungs
in respiration.
 -- Stationary engine. (a) A steam engine thet is permanently placed,
in distinction from a portable engine, locomotive, marine engine,
etc. Specifically: (b) A factory engine, in distinction from a
blowing, pumping, or other kind of engine which is also permanently
placed.

STATIONARY
Sta"tion*a*ry, n.; pl. -ries (.

Defn: One who, or that which, is stationary, as a planet when
apparently it has neither progressive nor retrograde motion. Holland.

STATIONER
Sta"tion*er, n. Etym: [Cf. Stationary, a.]

1. A bookseller or publisher; -- formerly so called from his
occupying a stand, or station, in the market place or elsewhere.
[Obs.] Dryden.

2. One who sells paper, pens, quills, inkstands, pencils, blank
books, and other articles used in writing.

STATIONERY
Sta"tion*er*y, n.

Defn: The articles usually sold by stationers, as paper, pens, ink,
quills, blank books, etc.

STATIONERY
Sta"tion*er*y, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or sold by, a stationer.

STATISM
Sta"tism, n. Etym: [From State.]

Defn: The art of governing a state; statecraft; policy. [Obs.]
The enemies of God . . . call our religion statism. South.

STATIST
Sta"tist, n. Etym: [From State.]

1. A statesman; a politician; one skilled in government. [Obs.]
Statists indeed, And lovers of their country. Milton.

2. A statistician. Fawcett.

STATISTIC; STATISTICAL
Sta*tis"tic, Sta*tis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. statistique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to statistics; as, statistical knowledge,
statistical tabulation.

STATISTICALLY
Sta*tis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the way of statistics.

STATISTICIAN
Stat`is*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. statisticien.]

Defn: One versed in statistics; one who collects and classifies facts
for statistics.

STATISTICS
Sta*tis"tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. statistique, G. statistik. See State,
n.]

1. The science which has to do with the collection and classification
of certain facts respecting the condition of the people in a state.

Note: [In this sense gramatically singular.]

2. pl.

Defn: Classified facts respecting the condition of the people in a
state, their health, their longevity, domestic economy, arts,
property, and political strength, their resources, the state of the
country, etc., or respecting any particular class or interest;
especially, those facts which can be stated in numbers, or in tables
of numbers, or in any tabular and classified arrangement.

Defn: The branch of mathematics which studies methods for the
calculation of probabilities.

STATISTOLOGY
Stat`is*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Statistics + -logy.]

Defn: See Statistics, 2.

STATIVE
Sta"tive, a. Etym: [L. stativus, fr. stare, statum, to stand.] (Mil.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a fixed camp, or military posts or
quarters. [Obs. or R.]

STATOBLAST
Stat"o*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. i.e., remaining) + -blast.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a peculiar kind of internal buds, or germs, produced in
the interior of certain Bryozoa and sponges, especially in the fresh-
water species; -- also called winter buds.

Note: They are protected by a firm covering, and are usually destined
to perpetuate the species during the winter season. They burst open
and develop in the spring. In some fresh-water sponges they serve to
preserve the species during the dry season. See Illust. under
Phylactolæmata.

STATOCRACY
Sta*toc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [State + -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: Government by the state, or by political power, in distinction
from government by ecclesiastical power. [R.] O. A. Brownson.

STATOR
Sta"tor, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A stationary part in or about which another part (the rotor)
revolves, esp. when both are large; as,
 (a) (Elec.) The stationary member of an electrical machine, as of an
induction motor.
 (b) (Steam Turbine) The case inclosing a turbine wheel; the body of
stationary blades or nozzles.

STATUA
Stat"u*a, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A statue. [Obs.]
They spake not a word; But, like dumb statuas or breathing stones,
Gazed each on other. Shak.

STATUARY
Stat"u*a*ry, n.; pl. Statuaries. Etym: [L. statuarius, n., fr.
statuarius, a., of or belonging to statues, fr. statua statue: cf. F.
statuaire. See Statue.]

1. One who practices the art of making statues.
On other occasions the statuaries took their subjects from the poets.
Addison.

2. Etym: [L. statuaria (sc. ars): cf. F. statuaire.]

Defn: The art of carving statues or images as representatives of real
persons or things; a branch of sculpture. Sir W. Temple.

3. A collection of statues; statues, collectively.

STATUE
Stat"ue, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. statua (akin to stativus standing
still), fr. stare, statum, to stand. See Stand.]

1. The likeness of a living being sculptured or modeled in some solid
substance, as marble, bronze, or wax; an image; as, a statue of
Hercules, or of a lion.
I will raise her statue in pure gold. Shak.

2. A portrait. [Obs.] Massinger.

STATUE
Stat"ue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Statued; p. pr. & vb. n. Statuing.]

Defn: To place, as a statue; to form a statue of; to make into a
statue. "The whole man becomes as if statued into stone and earth."
Feltham.

STATUED
Stat"ued, a.

Defn: Adorned with statues. "The statued hall." Longfellow. "Statued
niches." G. Eliot.

STATUELESS
Stat"ue*less, a.

Defn: Without a statue.

STATUELIKE
Stat"ue*like`, a.

Defn: Like a statue; motionless.

STATUESQUE
Stat`u*esque", a.

Defn: Partaking of, or exemplifying, the characteristics of a statue;
having the symmetry, or other excellence, of a statue artistically
made; as, statuesquelimbs; a statuesque attitude.
Their characters are mostly statuesque even in this respect, that
they have no background. Hare.

STATUESQUELY
Stat`u*esque"ly, adv.

Defn: In a statuesque manner; in a way suggestive of a statue; like a
statue.
A character statuesquely simple in its details. Lowell.

STATUETTE
Stat`u*ette", n. Etym: [F., cf. It. statuetta.]

Defn: A small statue; -- usually applied to a figure much less than
life size, especially when of marble or bronze, or of plaster or clay
as a preparation for the marble or bronze, as distinguished from a
figure in terra cotta or the like. Cf. Figurine.

STATUMINATE
Sta*tu"mi*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. statuminatus, p.p. of statuminare to
prop, fr. statumen a prop, fr. statuere to place.]

Defn: To prop or support. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

STATURE
Stat"ure, n. Etym: [F. stature, OF. estature, from L. statura,
originally, an upright posture, hence, height or size of the body,
from stare, statum, to stand. See Stand.]

Defn: The natural height of an animal body; -- generally used of the
human body.
Foreign men of mighty stature came. Dryden.

STATURED
Stat"ured, a.

Defn: Arrived at full stature. [R.]

STATUS
Sta"tus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: State; condition; position of affairs.

STATUS IN QUO; STATUS QUO
Sta"tus in` quo", Sta"tus quo". Etym: [L., state in which.]

Defn: The state in which anything is already. The phrase is also used
retrospectively, as when, on a treaty of place, matters return to the
status quo ante bellum, or are left in statu quo ante bellum, i.e.,
the state (or, in the state) before the war.

STATUTABLE
Stat"u*ta*ble, a.

1. Made or introduced by statute; proceeding from an act of the
legistature; as, a statutable provision or remedy.

2. Made or being in conformity to statute; standard; as, statutable
measures.

STATUTABLY
Stat"u*ta*bly, adv.

Defn: Conformably to statute.

STATUTE
Stat"ute, n. Etym: [F. statut, LL. statutum, from L. statutus, p.p.
of statuere to set, station, ordain, fr. status position, station,
fr. stare, statum, to stand. See Stand, and cf. Constitute,
Destitute.]

1. An act of the legislature of a state or country, declaring,
commanding, or prohibiting something; a positive law; the written
will of the legislature expressed with all the requisite forms of
legislation; -- used in distinction fraom common law. See Common law,
under Common, a. Bouvier.

Note: Statute is commonly applied to the acts of a legislative body
consisting of representatives. In monarchies, legislature laws of the
sovereign are called edicts, decrees, ordinances, rescripts, etc. In
works on international law and in the Roman law, the term is used as
embracing all laws imposed by competent authority. Statutes in this
sense are divided into statutes real, statutes personal, and statutes
mixed; statutes real applying to immovables; statutes personal to
movables; and statutes mixed to both classes of property.

2. An act of a corporation or of its founder, intended as a permanent
rule or law; as, the statutes of a university.

3. An assemblage of farming servants (held possibly by statute) for
the purpose of being hired; -- called also statute fair. [Eng.] Cf.
3d Mop, 2. Halliwell. Statute book, a record of laws or legislative
acts. Blackstone.
 -- Statute cap, a kind of woolen cap; -- so called because enjoined
to be worn by a statute, dated in 1571, in behalf of the trade of
cappers. [Obs.] Halliwell.
 -- Statute fair. See Statute, n., 3, above.
 -- Statute labor, a definite amount of labor required for the public
service in making roads, bridges, etc., as in certain English
colonies.
 -- Statute merchant (Eng. Law), a bond of record pursuant to the
stat. 13 Edw. I., acknowledged in form prescribed, on which, if not
paid at the day, an execution might be awarded against the body,
lands, and goods of the debtor, and the obligee might hold the lands
until out of the rents and profits of them the debt was satisfied; --
called also a pocket judgment. It is now fallen into disuse. Tomlins.
Bouvier.
 -- Statute mile. See under Mile.
 -- Statute of limitations (Law), a statute assigned a certain time,
after which rights can not be enforced by action.
 -- Statute staple, a bond of record acknowledged before the mayor of
the staple, by virtue of which the creditor may, on nonpayment,
forthwith have execution against the body, lands, and goods of the
debtor, as in the statute merchant. It is now disused. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Act; regulation; edict; decree. See Law.

STATUTORY
Stat"u*to*ry, a.

Defn: Enacted by statute; depending on statute for its authority; as,
a statutory provision.

STAUNCH; STAUNCHLY; STAUNCHNESS
Staunch, Staunch"ly, Staunch"ness, etc.

Defn: See Stanch, Stanchly, etc.

STAUROLITE
Stau"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a brown to black color occurring in prismatic
crystals, often twinned so as to form groups resembling a cross. It
is a silicate of aluminia and iron, and is generally found imbedded
in mica schist. Called also granatite, and grenatite.

STAUROLITIC
Stau`ro*lit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to staurolite; resembling or containing
staurolite.

STAUROSCOPE
Stau"ro*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: An optical instrument used in determining the position of the
planes of light-vibration in sections of crystals.

STAUROTIDE
Stau"ro*tide, n. Etym: [F. staurotide, from Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Staurolite.

STAVE
Stave, n. Etym: [From Staff, and corresponding to the pl. staves. See
Staff.]

1. One of a number of narrow strips of wood, or narrow iron plates,
placed edge to edge to form the sides, covering, or lining of a
vessel or structure; esp., one of the strips which form the sides of
a cask, a pail, etc.

2. One of the cylindrical bars of a lantern wheel; one of the bars or
rounds of a rack, a ladder, etc.

3. A metrical portion; a stanza; a staff.
Let us chant a passing stave In honor of that hero brave. Wordsworth.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: The five horizontal and parallel lines on and between which
musical notes are written or pointed; the staff. [Obs.] Stave
jointer, a machine for dressing the edges of staves.

STAVE
Stave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Staved or Stove (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Staving.] Etym: [From Stave, n., or Staff, n.]

1. To break in a stave or the staves of; to break a hole in; to
burst; -- often with in; as, to stave a cask; to stave in a boat.

2. To push, as with a staff; -- with off.
The condition of a servant staves him off to a distance. South.

3. To delay by force or craft; to drive away; -- usually with off;
as, to stave off the execution of a project.
And answered with such craft as women use, Guilty or guilties, to
stave off a chance That breaks upon them perilously. Tennyson.

4. To suffer, or cause, to be lost by breaking the cask.
All the wine in the city has been staved. Sandys.

5. To furnish with staves or rundles. Knolles.

6. To render impervious or solid by driving with a calking iron; as,
to stave lead, or the joints of pipes into which lead has been run.
To stave and tail, in bear baiting, (to stave) to interpose with the
staff, doubtless to stop the bear; (to tail) to hold back the dog by
the tail. Nares.

STAVE
Stave, v. i.

Defn: To burst in pieces by striking against something; to dash into
fragments.
Like a vessel of glass she stove and sank. Longfellow.

STAVES
Staves, n.;

Defn: pl. of Staff. "Banners, scarves and staves." R. Browning. Also
(stavz),

Defn: pl. of Stave.

STAVESACRE
Staves"a`cre, n. Etym: [Corrupted from NL. staphis agria, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of larkspur (Delphinium Staphysagria), and its seeds,
which are violently purgative and emetic. They are used as a
parasiticide, and in the East for poisoning fish.

STAVEWOOD
Stave`wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tall tree (Simaruba amara) growing in tropical America. It is
one of the trees which yields quassia.

STAVING
Stav"ing, n.

Defn: A cassing or lining of staves; especially, one encircling a
water wheel.

STAW
Staw, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Dan. staae to stand, Sw. stå. *163.]

Defn: To be fixed or set; to stay. [Prov. Eng.]

STAY
Stay, n. Etym: [AS. stæg, akin to D., G., Icel., Sw., & Dan. stag;
cf. OF. estai, F. étai, of Teutonic origin.] (Naut.)

Defn: A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being
extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some
part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft
stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays.
See Illust. of Ship. In stays, or Hove in stays (Naut.), in the act
or situation of staying, or going about from one tack to another. R.
H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Stay holes (Naut.), openings in the edge of a staysail through
which the hanks pass which join it to the stay.
 -- Stay tackle (Naut.), a tackle attached to a stay and used for
hoisting or lowering heavy articles over the side.
 -- To miss stays (Naut.), to fail in the attempt to go about.
Totten.
 -- Triatic stay (Naut.), a rope secured at the ends to the heads of
the foremast and mainmast with thimbles spliced to its bight into
which the stay tackles hook.

STAY
Stay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stayed or Staid (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Staying.] Etym: [OF. estayer, F. étayer to prop, fr. OF. estai, F.
étai, a prop, probably fr. OD. stade, staeye, a prop, akin to E.
stead; or cf. stay a rope to support a mast. Cf. Staid, a., Stay, v.
i.]

1. To stop from motion or falling; to prop; to fix firmly; to hold
up; to support.
Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the
other on the other side. Ex. xvii. 12.
Sallows and reeds . . . for vineyards useful found To stay thy vines.
Dryden.

2. To support from sinking; to sustain with strength; to satisfy in
part or for the time.
He has devoured a whole loaf of bread and butter, and it has not
staid his stomach for a minute. Sir W. Scott.

3. To bear up under; to endure; to support; to resist successfully.
She will not stay the siege of loving terms, Nor bide the encounter
of assailing eyes. Shak.

4. To hold from proceeding; to withhold; to restrain; to stop; to
hold.
Him backward overthrew and down him stayed With their rude hands
grisly grapplement. Spenser.
All that may stay their minds from thinking that true which they
heartly wish were false. Hooker.

5. To hinde
Your ships are stayed at Venice. Shak.
This business staid me in London almost a week. Evelyn.
I was willing to stay my reader on an argument that appeared to me
new. Locke.

6. To remain for the purpose of; to wait for. "I stay dinner there."
Shak.

7. To cause to cease; to put an end to.
Stay your strife. Shak.
For flattering planets seemed to say This child should ills of ages
stay. Emerson.

8. (Engin.)

Defn: To fasten or secure with stays; as, to stay a flat sheet in a
steam boiler.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: To tack, as a vessel, so that the other side of the vessel
shall be presented to the wind. To stay a mast (Naut.), to incline it
forward or aft, or to one side, by the stays and backstays.

STAY
Stay, v. i. Etym: [*163. See Stay to hold up, prop.]

1. To remain; to continue in a place; to abide fixed for a space of
time; to stop; to stand still.
She would command the hasty sun to stay. Spenser.
Stay, I command you; stay and hear me first. Dryden.
I stay a little longer, as one stays To cover up the embers that
still burn. Longfellow.

2. To continue in a state.
The flames augment, and stay At their full height, then languish to
decay. Dryden.

3. To wait; to attend; to forbear to act.
I'll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach, which stays
for us. Shak.
The father can not stay any longer for the fortune. Locke.

4. To dwell; to tarry; to linger.
I must stay a little on one action. Dryden.

5. To rest; to depend; to rely; to stand; to insist.
I stay here on my bond. Shak.
Ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and
stay thereon. Isa. xxx. 12.

6. To come to an end; to cease; as, that day the storm stayed.
[Archaic]
Here my commission stays. Shak.

7. To hold out in a race or other contest; as, a horse stays well.
[Colloq.]

8. (Naut.)

Defn: To change tack; as a ship.

STAY
Stay, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. estai, F. étai support, and E. stay a rope to
support a mast.]

1. That which serves as a prop; a support. "My only strength and
stay." Milton.
Trees serve as so many stays for their vines. Addison.
Lord Liverpool is the single stay of this ministry. Coleridge.

2. pl.

Defn: A corset stiffened with whalebone or other material, worn by
women, and rarely by men.
How the strait stays the slender waist constrain. Gay.

3. Continuance in a place; abode for a space of time; sojourn; as,
you make a short stay in this city.
Make haste, and leave thy business and thy care; No mortal interest
can be worth thy stay. Dryden.
Embrace the hero and his stay implore. Waller.

4. Cessation of motion or progression; stand; stop.
Made of sphere metal, never to decay Until his revolution was at
stay. Milton.
Affairs of state seemed rather to stand at a stay. Hayward.

5. Hindrance; let; check. [Obs.]
They were able to read good authors without any stay, if the book
were not false. Robynson (more's Utopia).

6. Restraint of passion; moderation; caution; steadiness; sobriety.
[Obs.] "Not grudging that thy lust hath bounds and stays." Herbert.
The wisdom, stay, and moderation of the king. Bacon.
With prudent stay he long deferred The rough contention. Philips.

7. (Engin.)

Defn: Strictly, a part in tension to hold the parts together, or
stiffen them. Stay bolt (Mech.), a bolt or short rod, connecting
opposite plates, so as to prevent them from being bulged out when
acted upon by a pressure which tends to force them apart, as in the
leg of a steam boiler.
 -- Stay busk, a stiff piece of wood, steel, or whalebone, for the
front support of a woman's stays. Cf. Busk.
 -- Stay rod, a rod which acts as a stay, particularly in a steam
boiler.

STAYED
Stayed, a.

Defn: Staid; fixed; settled; sober; -- now written staid. See Staid.
Bacon. Pope.

STAYEDLY
Stayed"ly, adv.

Defn: Staidly. See Staidly. [R.]

STAYEDNESS
Stayed"ness, n.

1. Staidness. [Archaic] W. Whately.

2. Solidity; weight. [R.] Camden.

STAYER
Stay"er, n.

Defn: One who upholds or supports that which props; one who, or that
which, stays, stops, or restrains; also, colloquially, a horse, man,
etc., that has endurance, an a race.

STAYLACE
Stay"lace`, n.

Defn: A lace for fastening stays.

STAYLESS
Stay"less, a.

Defn: Without stop or delay. Mir. for Mag.

STAYMAKER
Stay"mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make stays.

STAYNIL
Stay"nil, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European starling. [Prov. Eng.]

STAYSAIL
Stay"sail`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Any sail extended on a stay.

STAYSHIP
Stay"ship`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A remora, -- fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them.

STEAD
Stead, n. Etym: [OE. stede place, AS. stede; akin to LG. & D. stede,
OS. stad, stedi, OHG. stat, G. statt, stätte, Icel. staedhr, Dan.
sted, Sw. stad, Goth. sta, and E. stand. *163. See Stand, and cf.
Staith, Stithy.]

1. Place, or spot, in general. [Obs., except in composition.]
Chaucer.
Fly, therefore, fly this fearful stead anon. Spenser.

2. Place or room which another had, has, or might have. "Stewards of
your steads." Piers Plowman.
In stead of bounds, he a pillar set. Chaucer.

3. A frame on which a bed is laid; a bedstead. [R.]
The genial bed, Sallow the feet, the borders, and the stead. Dryden.

4. A farmhouse and offices. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

Note: The word is now commonly used as the last part of a compound;
as, farmstead, homestead, readstead, etc. In stead of, in place of.
See Instead.
 -- To stand in stead, or To do stead, to be of use or great
advantage.
The smallest act . . . shall stand us in great stead. Atterbury.
Here thy sword can do thee little stead. Milton.

STEAD
Stead, v. t.

1. To help; to support; to benefit; to assist.
Perhaps my succour or advisement meet, Mote stead you much your
purpose to subdue. Spenser.
It nothing steads us To chide him from our eaves. Shak.

2. To fill place of. [Obs.] Shak.

STEADFAST
Stead"fast, a. Etym: [Stead + fast, that is, fast in place.] Etym:
[Written also stedfast.]

1. Firmly fixed or established; fast fixed; firm. "This steadfast
globe of earth." Spenser.

2. Not fickle or wavering; constant; firm; resolute; unswerving;
steady. "Steadfast eye." Shak.
Abide steadfast unto him [thy neighbor] in the time of his trouble.
Ecclus. xxii. 23.
Whom resist steadfast in the faith. 1 Pet. v. 9.

STEADFASTLY
Stead"fast*ly, adv.

Defn: In a steadfast manner; firmly.
Steadfast believe that whatever God has revealed is infallibly true.
Wake.

STEADFASTNESS
Stead"fast*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being steadfast; firmness; fixedness;
constancy. "The steadfastness of your faith." Col. ii. 5.
To prove her wifehood and her steadfastness. Chaucer.

STEADILY
Stead"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a steady manner.

STEADINESS
Stead"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being steady.
Steadiness is a point of prudence as well as of courage. L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Constancy; resolution; unchangeableness.

STEADING
Stead"ing, n.

Defn: The brans, stables, cattle-yards, etc., of a farm; -- called
also onstead, farmstead, farm offices, or farmery. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.]

STEADY
Stead"y, a. [Compar. Steadier; superl. Steadiest.] Etym: [Cf. AS.
stedig sterile, barren, stæ, steady (in gestæ), D. stedig, stadig,
steeg, G. stätig, stetig. See Stead, n.]

1. Firm in standing or position; not tottering or shaking; fixed;
firm. "The softest, steadiest plume." Keble.
Their feet steady, their hands diligent, their eyes watchful, and
their hearts resolute. Sir P. Sidney.

2. Constant in feeling, purpose, or pursuit; not fickle, changeable,
or wavering; not easily moved or persuaded to alter a purpose;
resolute; as, a man steady in his principles, in his purpose, or in
the pursuit of an object.

3. Regular; constant; undeviating; uniform; as, the steady course of
the sun; a steady breeze of wind.

Syn.
 -- Fixed; regular; uniform; undeviating; invariable; unremitted;
stable. Steady rest (Mach), a rest in a turning lathe, to keep a long
piece of work from trembling.

STEADY
Stead"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steadied; p. pr. & vb. n. Steadying.]

Defn: To make steady; to hold or keep from shaking, reeling, or
falling; to make or keep firm; to support; to make constant, regular,
or resolute.

STEADY
Stead"y, v. i.

Defn: To become steady; to regain a steady position or state; to move
steadily.
Without a breeze, without a tide, She steadies with upright keel.
Coleridge.

STEAK
Steak, n. Etym: [OE. steike, Icel. steik, akin to Icel. steikja to
roast, stikna to be roasted or scorched, and E. stick, the steak
being broiled on a spit. See Stick, v. t.]

Defn: A slice of beef, broiled, or cut for broiling; -- also extended
to the meat of other large animals; as, venison steak; bear steak;
pork steak; turtle steak.

STEAL
Steal, n. Etym: [See Stale a handle.]

Defn: A handle; a stale, or stele. [Archaic or Prov. Eng.]
And in his hand a huge poleax did bear. Whose steale was iron-studded
but not long. Spenser.

STEAL
Steal, v. t. [imp. Stole; p. p. Stolen; p. pr. & vb. n. Stealing.]
Etym: [OE. stelen, AS. stelan; akin to OFries. stela, D. stelen, OHG.
stelan, G. stehlen, Icel. stela, SW. stjäla, Dan. stiæle, Goth.
stilan.]

1. To take and carry away, feloniously; to take without right or
leave, and with intent to keep wrongfully; as, to steal the personal
goods of another.
Maugre thy heed, thou must for indigence Or steal, or borrow, thy
dispense. Chaucer.
The man who stole a goose and gave away the giblets in G. Eliot.

2. To withdraw or convey clandestinely (reflexive); hence, to creep
furtively, or to insinuate.
They could insinuate and steal themselves under the same by their
humble carriage and submission. Spenser.
He will steal himself into a man's favor. Shak.

3. To gain by insinuating arts or covert means.
So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. 2 Sam. xv. 6.

4. To get into one's power gradually and by imperceptible degrees; to
take possession of by a gradual and imperceptible appropriation; --
with away.
Variety of objects has a tendency to steal away the mind from its
steady pursuit of any subject. I. Watts.

5. To accomplish in a concealed or unobserved manner; to try to carry
out secretly; as, to steal a look.
Always, when thou changest thine opinion or course, profess it
plainly, . . . and do not think to steal it. Bacon.
To steal a march, to march in a covert way; to gain an advantage
unobserved; -- formerly followed by of, but now by on or upon, and
sometimes by over; as, to steal a march upon one's political rivals.
She yesterday wanted to steal a march of poor Liddy. Smollett.
Fifty thousand men can not easily steal a march over the sea.
Walpole.

Syn.
 -- To filch; pilfer; purloin; thieve.

STEAL
Steal, v. i.

1. To practice, or be guilty of, theft; to commit larceny or theft.
Thou shalt not steal. Ex. xx. 15.

2. To withdraw, or pass privily; to slip in, along, or away,
unperceived; to go or come furtively. Chaucer.
Fixed of mind to avoid further entreaty, and to fly all company, one
night she stole away. Sir P. Sidney.
From whom you now must steal, and take no leave. Shak.
A soft and solemn breathing sound Rose like a steam of rich,
distilled perfumes, And stole upon the air. Milton.

STEALER
Steal"er, n.

1. One who steals; a thief.

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: The endmost plank of a strake which stops short of the stem or
stern.

STEALING
Steal"ing, n.

1. The act of taking feloniously the personal property of another
without his consent and knowledge; theft; larceny.

2. That which is stolen; stolen property; -- chiefly used in the
plural.

STEALINGLY
Steal"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By stealing, or as by stealing, furtively, or by an invisible
motion. Sir P. Sidney.

STEALTH
Stealth, n. Etym: [OE. staple. See Steal, v. t.]

1. The act of stealing; theft. [Obs.]
The owner proveth the stealth to have been committed upon him by such
an outlaw. Spenser.

2. The thing stolen; stolen property. [Obs.] "Sluttish dens . . .
serving to cover stealths." Sir W. Raleigh.

3. The bringing to pass anything in a secret or concealed manner; a
secret procedure; a clandestine practice or action; -- in either a
good or a bad sense.
Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame. Pope.
The monarch, blinded with desire of wealth, With steel invades the
brother's life by stealth. Dryden.
I told him of your stealth unto this wood. Shak.

STEALTHFUL
Stealth"ful, a.

Defn: Given to stealth; stealthy. [Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ly, adv.
[Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ness, n. [Obs.]

STEALTHILY
Stealth"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stealthy manner.

STEALTHINESS
Stealth"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state, quality, or character of being stealthy; stealth.

STEALTHLIKE
Stealth"like`, a.

Defn: Stealthy; sly. Wordsworth.

STEALTHY
Stealth"y, a. [Compar. Stealthier; superl. Stealthiest.]

Defn: Done by stealth; accomplished clandestinely; unperceived;
secret; furtive; sly.
[Withered murder] with his stealthy pace, . . . Moves like a ghost.
Shak.

STEAM
Steam, n. Etym: [OE. stem, steem, vapor, flame, AS. steám vapor,
smoke, odor; akin to D. stoom steam, perhaps originally, a pillar, or
something rising like a pillar; cf. Gr. stand.]

1. The elastic, aëriform fluid into which water is converted when
heated to the boiling points; water in the state of vapor.

2. The mist formed by condensed vapor; visible vapor; -- so called in
popular usage.

3. Any exhalation. "A steam og rich, distilled perfumes." Milton. Dry
steam, steam which does not contain water held in suspension
mechanically; -- sometimes applied to superheated steam.
 -- Exhaust steam. See under Exhaust.
 -- High steam, or High-pressure steam, steam of which the pressure
greatly exceeds that of the atmosphere.
 -- Low steam, or Low-pressure steam, steam of which the pressure is
less than, equal to, or not greatly above, that of the atmosphere.
 -- Saturated steam, steam at the temperature of the boiling point
which corresponds to its pressure; -- sometimes also applied to wet
steam.
 -- Superheated steam, steam heated to a temperature higher than the
boiling point corresponding to its pressure. It can not exist in
contact with water, nor contain water, and resembles a perfect gas; -
- called also surcharged steam, anhydrous steam, and steam gas.
 -- Wet steam, steam which contains water held in suspension
mechanically; -- called also misty steam.

Note: Steam is often used adjectively, and in combination, to denote,
produced by heat, or operated by power, derived from steam, in
distinction from other sources of power; as in steam boiler or steam-
boiler, steam dredger or steam-dredger, steam engine or steam-engine,
steam heat, steam plow or steam-plow, etc. Steam blower. (a) A blower
for producing a draught consisting of a jet or jets of steam in a
chimney or under a fire. (b) A fan blower driven directly by a steam
engine.
 -- Steam boiler, a boiler for producing steam. See Boiler, 3, and
Note. In the illustration, the shell a of the boiler is partly in
section, showing the tubes, or flues, which the hot gases, from the
fire beneath the boiler, enter, after traversing the outside of the
shell, and through which the gases are led to the smoke pipe d, which
delivers them to the chimney; b is the manhole; c the dome; e the
steam pipe; f the feed and blow-off pipe; g the safety value; hthe
water gauge.
 -- Steam car, a car driven by steam power, or drawn by a locomotive.
 -- Steam carriage, a carriage upon wheels moved on common roads by
steam.
 -- Steam casing. See Steam jacket, under Jacket.
 -- Steam chest, the box or chamber from which steam is distributed
to the cylinder of a steam engine, steam pump, etc., and which
usually contains one or more values; -- called also valve chest, and
valve box. See Illust. of Slide valve, under Slide.
 -- Steam chimney, an annular chamber around the chimney of a boiler
furnace, for drying steam.
 -- Steam coil, a coil of pipe, or collection of connected pipes, for
containing steam; -- used for heating, drying, etc.
 -- Steam colors (Calico Printing), colors in which the chemical
reaction fixed the coloring matter in the fiber is produced by steam.
 -- Steam cylinder, the cylinder of a steam engine, which contains
the piston. See Illust. of Slide valve, under Slide.
 -- Steam dome (Steam Boilers), a chamber upon the top of the boiler,
from which steam is conduced to the engine. See Illust. of Steam
boiler, above.
 -- Steam fire engine, a fire engine consisting of a steam boiler and
engine, and pump which is driven by the engine, combined and mounted
on wheels. It is usually drawn by horses, but is sometimes made self-
propelling.
 -- Steam fitter, a fitter of steam pipes.
 -- Steam fitting, the act or the occupation of a steam fitter; also,
a pipe fitting for steam pipes.
 -- Steam gas. See Superheated steam, above.
 -- Steam gauge, an instrument for indicating the pressure of the
steam in a boiler. The mercurial steam gauge is a bent tube partially
filled with mercury, one end of which is connected with the boiler
while the other is open to the air, so that the steam by its pressure
raises the mercury in the long limb of the tume to a height
proportioned to that pressure. A more common form, especially for
high pressures, consists of a spring pressed upon by the steam, and
connected with the pointer of a dial. The spring may be a flattened,
bent tube, closed at one end, which the entering steam tends to
straighten, or it may be a diaphragm of elastic metal, or a mass of
confined air, etc.
 -- Steam gun, a machine or contrivance from which projectiles may be
thrown by the elastic force of steam.
 -- Steam hammer, a hammer for forging, which is worked directly by
steam; especially, a hammer which is guided vertically and operated
by a vertical steam cylinder located directly over an anvil. In the
variety known as Nasmyth's, the cylinder is fixed, and the hammer is
attached to the piston rod. In that known as Condie's, the piston is
fixed, and the hammer attached to the lower end of the cylinder.
 -- Steam heater. (a) A radiator heated by steam. (b) An apparatus
consisting of a steam boiler, radiator, piping, and fixures for
warming a house by steam.
 -- Steam jacket. See under Jacket.
 -- Steam packet, a packet or vessel propelled by steam, and running
periodically between certain ports.
 -- Steam pipe, any pipe for conveying steam; specifically, a pipe
through which steam is supplied to an engine.
 -- Steam plow or plough, a plow, or gang of plows, moved by a steam
engine.
 -- Steam port, an opening for steam to pass through, as from the
steam chest into the cylinder.
 -- Steam power, the force or energy of steam applied to produce
results; power derived from a steam engine.
 -- Steam propeller. See Propeller.
 -- Steam pump, a small pumping engine operated by steam. It is
usually direct-acting.
 -- Steam room (Steam Boilers), the space in the boiler above the
water level, and in the dome, which contains steam.
 -- Steam table, a table on which are dishes heated by steam for
keeping food warm in the carving room of a hotel, restaurant, etc.
 -- Steam trap, a self-acting device by means of which water that
accumulates in a pipe or vessel containing steam will be discharged
without permitting steam to escape.
 -- Steam tug, a steam vessel used in towing or propelling ships.
 -- Steam vessel, a vessel propelled by steam; a steamboat or
steamship; -- a steamer.
 -- Steam whistle, an apparatus attached to a steam boiler, as of a
locomotive, through which steam is rapidly discharged, producing a
loud whistle which serves as a warning signal. The steam issues from
a narrow annular orifice around the upper edge of the lower cup or
hemisphere, striking the thin edge of the bell above it, and
producing sound in the manner of an organ pipe or a common whistle.

STEAM
Steam, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Steamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Steaming.]

1. To emit steam or vapor.
My brother's ghost hangs hovering there, O'er his warm blood, that
steams into the air. Dryden.
Let the crude humors dance In heated brass, steaming with fire
intence. J. Philips.

2. To rise in vapor; to issue, or pass off, as vapor.
The dissolved amber . . . steamed away into the air. Boyle.

3. To move or travel by the agency of steam.
The vessel steamed out of port. N. P. Willis.

4. To generate steam; as, the boiler steams well.

STEAM
Steam, v. t.

1. To exhale. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To expose to the action of steam; to apply steam to for softening,
dressing, or preparing; as, to steam wood; to steamcloth; to steam
food, etc.

STEAMBOAT
Steam"boat`, n.

Defn: A boat or vessel propelled by steam power; -- generally used of
river or coasting craft, as distinguished from ocean steamers.

STEAMBOATING
Steam"boat`ing, n.

1. The occupation or business of running a steamboat, or of
transporting merchandise, passengers, etc., by steamboats.

2. (Bookbinding)

Defn: The shearing of a pile of books which are as yet uncovered, or
out of boards. Knight.

STEAM ENGINE
Steam" en"gine.

Defn: An engine moved by steam.

Note: In its most common forms its essential parts are a piston, a
cylinder, and a valve gear. The piston works in the cylinder, to
which steam is admitted by the action of the valve gear, and
communicates motion to the machinery to be actuated. Steam engines
are thus classified: 1. According to the wat the steam is used or
applied, as condencing, noncondencing, compound, double-acting,
single-acting, triple-expansion, etc. 2. According to the motion of
the piston, as reciprocating, rotary, etc. 3. According to the motion
imparted by the engine, as rotative and nonrotative. 4. According to
the arrangement of the engine, as stationary, portable, and
semiportable engines, beam engine, oscillating engine, direct-acting
and back-acting engines, etc. 5. According to their uses, as
portable, marine, locomotive, pumping, blowing, winding, and
stationary engines. Locomotive and portable engines are usually high-
pressure, noncondencing, rotative, and direct-acting. Marine engines
are high or low pressure, rotative, and generally condencing, double-
acting, and compound. Paddle engines are generally beam, sideScrew
engines are generally direct-acting, back-acting, or oscillating.
Stationary engines belong to various classes, but are generally
rotative. A horizontal or inclined stationary steam engine is called
a left-hand or a right-hand engine when the crank shaft and driving
pulley are on the left-hand side, or the right-hand side,
respectively, or the engine, to a person looking at them from the
cylinder, and is said to run forward or backward when the crank
traverses the upward half, or lower half, respectively, of its path,
while the piston rod makes its stroke outward from the cylinder. A
marine engine, or the engine of a locomotive, is said to run forward
when its motion is such as would propel the vessel or the locomotive
forward. Steam engines are further classified as double-cylinder,
disk, semicylinder, trunk engines, etc. Machines, such as cranes,
hammers, etc., of which the steam engine forms a part, are called
steam cranes, steam hammers, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Back-
acting, or Back-action, steam engine, a steam engine in which the
motion is transmitted backward from the crosshead to a crank which is
between the crosshead and the cylinder, or beyond the cylinder.
 -- Portable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and attached
to, a boiler which is mounted on wheels so as to admit of easy
transportation; -- used for driving machinery in the field, as
trashing machines, draining pumps, etc.
 -- Semiportable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and
attached to, a steam boiler, but not mounted on wheels.

STEAMER
Steam"er, n.

1. A vessel propelled by steam; a steamship or steamboat.

2. A steam fire engine. See under Steam.

3. A road locomotive for use on common roads, as in agricultural
operations.

4. A vessel in which articles are subjected to the action of steam,
as in washing, in cookery, and in various processes of manufacture.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The steamer duck. Steamer duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (Tachyeres
cinereus), native of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego, which swims and
dives with great agility, but which, when full grown, is incapable of
flight, owing to its very small wings. Called also loggerhead, race
horse, and side wheel duck.

STEAMINESS
Steam"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being steamy; vaporousness;
mistness.

STEAMSHIP
Steam"ship`, n.

Defn: A ship or seagoing vessel propelled by the power of steam; a
steamer.

STEAMY
Steam"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous;
misty. Cowper.

STEAN
Stean, n. & v.

Defn: See Steen. Spenser.

STEANINGP
Stean"ingp, n.

Defn: See Steening.

STEAPSIN
Ste*ap"sin, n. (Physiol Chem.)

Defn: An unorganized ferment or enzyme present in pancreatic juice.
It decomposes neutral fats into glycerin and fatty acids.

STEARATE
Ste"a*rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of stearic acid; as, ordinary soap consists largely of
sodium or potassium stearates.

STEARIC
Ste*ar"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stéarique.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, stearin or tallow; resembling
tallow. Stearic acid (Chem.), a monobasic fatty acid, obtained in the
form of white crystalline scales, soluble in alcohol and ether. It
melts to an oily liquid at 69°C.C18H36O2, CH3.(CH2)16.COOH; sodium
stearate, with sodium palmitate, is the main component of ordinary
bar soaps (Such as Ivory soap).

STEARIN
Ste"a*rin, n. Etym: [Gr. stéarine.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: One of the constituents of animal fats and also of some
vegetable fats, as the butter of cacao. It is especially
characterized by its solidity, so that when present in considerable
quantity it materially increases the hardness, or raises the melting
point, of the fat, as in mutton tallow. Chemically, it is a compound
of glyceryl with three molecules of stearic acid, and hence is
technically called tristearin, or glyceryl tristearate.

STEAROLIC
Ste`a*rol"ic, a. Etym: [Stearic + oleic + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acetylene
series, isologous with stearis acid, and obtained, as a white
crystalline substance, from oleïc acid.

STEARONE
Ste"a*rone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The ketone of stearic acid, obtained as a white crystalline
substance, (C17H35)2.CO, by the distillation of calcium stearate.

STEAROPTENE
Ste`a*rop"tene, n. Etym: [Stearic + -optene as in elæoptene.] (Chem.)

Defn: The more solid ingredient of certain volatile oils; --
contrasted with elæoptene.

STEARRHEA
Ste`ar*rhe"a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: seborrhea.

STEARYL
Ste"a*ryl, n. Etym: [Stearic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical characteristic of stearic acid.

STEATITE
Ste"a*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. stéatite.] (Min.)

Defn: A massive variety of talc, of a grayish green or brown color.
It forms extensive beds, and is quarried for fireplaces and for
coarse utensils. Called also potstone, lard stone, and soapstone.

STEATITIC
Ste`a*tit"ic, n. (Min.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, steatite; containing or
resembling steatite.

STEATOMA
Ste`a*to"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A cyst containing matter like suet.

STEATOMATOUS
Ste`a*tom"a*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of the nature of steatoma.

STEATOPYGA
Ste`a*top"y*ga, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A remarkable accretion of fat upon the buttocks of Africans of
certain tribes, especially of Hottentot women.

STEATOPYGOUS
Ste`a*top"y*gous, a.

Defn: Having fat buttocks.
Specimens of the steatopygous Abyssinian breed. Burton.

STED; STEDFAST; STEDFASTLY
Sted, n., Sted"fast, a., Sted"fast*ly, adv., etc.

Defn: See Stead, Steadfast, etc.

STEE
Stee, n. Etym: [Cf. G. stiege. *164. See Stair.]

Defn: A ladder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] [Written also stey.]

STEED
Steed, n. Etym: [OE. stede, AS. steda a stud-horse, war horse, fr.
stod a stud of breeding steeds; akin to G. stute a mare, Icel.
stedda, sto, a stud. *163. See Stud of horses.]

Defn: A horse, especially a spirited horse for state of war; -- used
chiefly in poetry or stately prose. "A knight upon a steed." Chaucer.
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed. Shak.

STEEDLESS
Steed"less, a.

Defn: Having no steed; without a horse.

STEEK; STEIK
Steek, Steik, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Stick, v. t.]

Defn: To pierce with a sharp instrument; hence, to stitch; to sew;
also, to fix; to fasten. [Scot.]

STEEL
Steel, n. Etym: [AS. stel, styl, style; akin to D. staal, G. stahl,
OHG. stahal, Icel. stal, Dan. staal, Sw. stål, Old Prussian stakla.]

1. (Metal)

Defn: A variety of iron intermediate in composition and properties
between wrought iron and cast iron (containing between one half of
one per cent and one and a half per cent of carbon), and consisting
of an alloy of iron with an iron carbide. Steel, unlike wrought iron,
can be tempered, and retains magnetism. Its malleability decreases,
and fusibility increases, with an increase in carbon.

2. An instrument or implement made of steel; as: --
(a) A weapon, as a sword, dagger, etc. "Brave Macbeth . . . with his
brandished steel." Shak.
While doubting thus he stood, Received the steel bathed in his
brother's blood. Dryden.

(b) An instrument of steel (usually a round rod) for sharpening
knives.
(c) A piece of steel for striking sparks from flint.

3. Fig.: Anything of extreme hardness; that which is characterized by
sternness or rigor. "Heads of steel." Johnson. "Manhood's heart of
steel." Byron.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A chalybeate medicine. Dunglison.

Note: Steel is often used in the formation of compounds, generally of
obvious meaning; as, steel-clad, steel-girt, steel-hearted, steel-
plated, steel-pointed, etc. Bessemer steel (Metal.) See in the
Vocabulary.
 -- Blister steel. (Metal.) See under Blister.
 -- Cast steel (Metal.), a fine variety of steel, originally made by
smelting blister or cementation steel; hence, ordinarily, steel of
any process of production when remelted and cast.
 -- Cromium steel (Metal.), a hard, tenacious variety containing a
little cromium, and somewhat resembling tungsten steel.
 -- Mild steel (Metal.), a kind of steel having a lower proportion of
carbon than ordinary steel, rendering it softer and more malleable.
 -- Puddled steel (Metal.), a variety of steel produced from cast
iron by the puddling process.
 -- Steel duck (Zoöl.), the goosander, or merganser. [Prov. Eng.] --
Steel mill. (a) (Firearms) See Wheel lock, under Wheel. (b) A mill
which has steel grinding surfaces. (c) A mill where steel is
manufactured.
 -- Steel trap, a trap for catching wild animals. It consists of two
iron jaws, which close by means of a powerful steel spring when the
animal disturbs the catch, or tongue, by which they are kept open.
 -- Steel wine, wine, usually sherry, in which steel filings have
been placed for a considerable time, -- used as a medicine.
 -- Tincture of steel (Med.), an alcoholic solution of the chloride
of iron.
 -- Tungsten steel (Metal.), a variety of steel containing a small
amount of tungsten, and noted for its tenacity and hardness, as well
as for its malleability and tempering qualities. It is also noted for
its magnetic properties.

STEEL
Steel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steeled; p. pr. & vb. n. Steeling.] Etym:
[AS. stlan: cf. Icel. stæla. See Steel, n.]

1. To overlay, point, or edge with steel; as, to steel a razor; to
steel an ax.

2. To make hard or strong; hence, to make insensible or obdurate.
Lies well steeled with weighty arguments. Shak.
O God of battles! steel my soldier's hearts. Shak.
Why will you fight against so sweet a passion, And steel your heart
to such a world of charms Addison.

3. Fig.: To cause to resemble steel, as in smoothness, polish, or
other qualities.
These waters, steeled By breezeless air to smoothest polish.
Wordsworth.

4. (Elec.)

Defn: To cover, as an electrotype plate, with a thin layer of iron by
electrolysis. The iron thus deposited is very hard, like steel.

STEELBOW GOODS
Steel"bow` goods". (Scots Law)

Defn: Those goods on a farm, such as corn, cattle, implements
husbandry, etc., which may not be carried off by a removing tenant,
as being the property of the landlord.

STEELER
Steel"er, n.

Defn: One who points, edges, or covers with steel.

STEELER
Steel"er, n. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: Same as Stealer.

STEELHEAD
Steel"head`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A North Pacific salmon (Salmo Gairdneri) found from Northern
California to Siberia; -- called also hardhead, and preesil.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ruddy duck.

STEELINESS
Steel"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being steely.

STEELING
Steel"ing, n.

Defn: The process of pointing, edging, or overlaying with steel;
specifically, acierage. See Steel, v.

STEELY
Steel"y, a.

1. Made of steel; consisting of steel. "The steely point of
Clifford's lance." Shak.
Around his shop the steely sparkles flew. Gay.

2. Resembling steel; hard; firm; having the color of steel. "His hair
was steely gray." The Century.
She would unarm her noble heart of that steely resistance against the
sweet blows of love. Sir P. Sidney.
Steely iron, a compound of iron containing less than one half of one
per cent of carbon.

STEELYARD
Steel"yard, n. Etym: [So named from a place in London called the
Steelyard, which was a yard in which steel was sold.]

Defn: A form of balance in which the body to be weighed is suspended
from the shorter arm of a lever, which turns on a fulcrum, and a
counterpoise is caused to slide upon the longer arm to produce
equilibrium, its place upon this arm (which is notched or graduated)
indicating the weight; a Roman balance; -- very commonly used also in
the plural form, steelyards.

STEEM
Steem, n. & v.

Defn: See Esteem. [Obs.] Spenser.

STEEM
Steem, n. & v.

Defn: See 1st and 2nd Stem. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEEN
Steen, n. Etym: [AS. st. See Stone.] [Written also stean.]

1. A vessel of clay or stone. "An huge great earth-pot steane."
Spenser.

2. A wall of brick, stone, or cement, used as a lining, as of a well,
cistern, etc.; a steening.

STEEN
Steen, v. t. Etym: [AS. st to adorn with stones or gems. See Stone.]

Defn: To line, as a well, with brick, stone, or other hard material.
[Written also stean, and stein.]

STEENBOK
Steen"bok`, n. Etym: [D. steen stone + bok buck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Steinbock.

STEENING
Steen"ing, n.

Defn: A lining made of brick, stone, or other hard material, as for a
well. [Written also steaning.]

STEENKIRK; STEINKIRK
Steen"kirk`, Stein"kirk`, n. Etym: [So called from the battle of
Steinkirk, in 1692, on which occasion the French nobles had no time
to arrange their lace neckcloths.]

Defn: A kind of neckcloth worn in a loose and disorderly fashion.

STEEP
Steep (step), a.

Defn: Bright; glittering; fiery. [Obs.]
His eyen steep, and rolling in his head. Chaucer.

STEEP
Steep, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steeped (stept); p. pr. & vb. n.
Steeping.] Etym: [OE. stepen, probably fr. Icel. steypa to cause to
stoop, cast down, pour out, to cast metals, causative of stupa to
stoop; cf. Sw. stöpa to cast, to steep, Dan. stöbe, D. & G. stippen
to steep, to dip. Cf. Stoop, v. t.]

Defn: To soak in a liquid; to macerate; to extract the essence of by
soaking; as, to soften seed by steeping it in water. Often used
figuratively.
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep. Shak.
In refreshing dew to steep The little, trembling flowers. Wordsworth.
The learned of the nation were steeped in Latin. Earle.

STEEP
Steep, v. i.

Defn: To undergo the process of soaking in a liquid; as, the tea is
steeping. [Colloq.]

STEEP
Steep, n.

1. Something steeped, or used in steeping; a fertilizing liquid to
hasten the germination of seeds.

2. A rennet bag. [Prov. Eng.]

STEEP
Steep, a. [Comper. Steeper; superl. Steepest.] Etym: [OE. steep,
step, AS. steáp; akin to Icel. steyp steep, and stupa to stoop, Sw.
stupa to fall, to tilt; cf. OFries. stap high. Cf. Stoop, v. i.,
Steep, v. t., Steeple.]

1. Making a large angle with the plane of the horizon; ascending or
descending rapidly with respect to a horizontal line or a level;
precipitous; as, a steep hill or mountain; a steep roof; a steep
ascent; a steep declivity; a steep barometric gradient.

2. Difficult of access; not easy reached; lofty; elevated; high.
[Obs.] Chapman.

3. Excessive; as, a steep price. [Slang]

STEEP
Steep, n.

Defn: A precipitous place, hill, mountain, rock, or ascent; any
elevated object sloping with a large angle to the plane of the
horizon; a precipice. Dryden.
We had on each side naked rocks and mountains broken into a thousand
irregular steeps and precipices. Addison.
Bare steeps, where desolation stalks. Wordsworth.

STEEP-DOWN
Steep"-down`, a.

Defn: Deep and precipitous, having steep descent. [R.]
Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire. Shak.

STEEPEN
Steep"en, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Steepened; p. pr. & vb. n. Steepening.]

Defn: To become steep or steeper.
As the way steepened . . . I could detect in the hollow of the hill
some traces of the old path. H. Miller.

STEEPER
Steep"er, n.

Defn: A vessel, vat, or cistern, in which things are steeped.

STEEPINESS
Steep"i*ness, n.

Defn: Steepness. Howell.

STEEPISH
Steep"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat steep. Carlyle.

STEEPLE
Stee"ple, n. Etym: [OE. stepel, AS. stepel, st; akin to E. steep, a.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A spire; also, the tower and spire taken together; the whole of
a structure if the roof is of spire form. See Spire. "A weathercock
on a steeple." Shak. Rood steeple. See Rood tower, under Rood.
 -- Steeple bush (Bot.), a low shrub (Spiræa tomentosa) having dense
panicles of minute rose-colored flowers; hardhack.
 -- Steeple chase, a race across country between a number of
horsemen, to see which can first reach some distant object, as a
church steeple; hence, a race over a prescribed course obstructed by
such obstacles as one meets in riding across country, as hedges,
walls, etc.
 -- Steeple chaser, one who rides in a steeple chase; also, a horse
trained to run in a steeple chase.
 -- Steeple engine, a vertical back-acting steam engine having the
cylinder beneath the crosshead.
 -- Steeple house, a church. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

STEEPLECHASING
Stee"ple*chas`ing, n.

Defn: The act of riding steeple chases.

STEEPLE-CROWNED
Stee"ple-crowned`, a.

1. Bearing a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned building.

2. Having a crown shaped like a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned hat;
also, wearing a hat with such a crown.
This grave, beared, sable-cloaked, and steeple-crowned progenitor.
Hawthorne.

STEEPLED
Stee"pled, a.

Defn: Furnished with, or having the form of, a steeple; adorned with
steeples. Fairfax.

STEEPLY
Steep"ly, adv.

Defn: In a steep manner; with steepness; with precipitous declivity.

STEEPNESS
Steep"ness, n.

1. Quality or state of being steep; precipitous declivity; as, the
steepnessof a hill or a roof.

2. Height; loftiness. [Obs.] Chapman.

STEEP-UP
Steep"-up`, a.

Defn: Lofty and precipitous. [R.]
Her stand she takes upon a steep-up hill. Shak.

STEEPY
Steep"y, a.

Defn: Steep; precipitous. [Poetic]
No more, my goats, shall I belong you climb The steepy cliffs, or
crop the flow'ry thyme. Dryden.

STEER
Steer, n. Etym: [OE. steer, AS. steór; akin to D. & G. stier a bull,
OHG. stior, Icel. stjorr, , Sw. tjur, Dan. tyr, Goth. stiur, Russ.
tur', Pol. tur, Ir. & Gael. tarbh, W. tarw, L. taurus, Gr. sth
strong, stout, AS. stor large, Icel. storr, OHG. st, stiuri. *168.
Cf. Stirk, Taurine, a.]

Defn: A young male of the ox kind; especially, a common ox; a
castrated taurine male from two to four years old. See the Note under
Ox.

STEER
Steer, v. t.

Defn: To castrate; -- said of male calves.

STEER
Steer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steered; p. pr. & vb. n. Steering.] Etym:
[OE. steeren, steren, AS. stiéran, st, steóran; akin to OFries.
stiora, stiura, D. sturen, OD. stieren, G. steuren, OHG. stiuren to
direct, support, G. steuer contribution, tax, Icel. st to steer,
govern,Sw. styra, Dan. styre, Goth. stiurjan to establish, AS. steór
a rudder, a helm, and probably to Icel. staurr a pale, stake, Gr.
stand. *168. Cf. Starboard, Stern, n.]

Defn: To direct the course of; to guide; to govern; -- applied
especially to a vessel in the water.
That with a staff his feeble steps did steer. Spenser.

STEER
Steer, v. i.

1. To direct a vessel in its course; to direct one's course. "No
helmsman steers." Tennyson.

2. To be directed and governed; to take a direction, or course; to
obey the helm; as, the boat steers easily.
Where the wind Veers oft, as oft [a ship] so steers, and shifts her
sail. Milton.

3. To conduct one's self; to take or pursue a course of action.

STEER
Steer, n. Etym: [AS. steór, stiór; akin to D. stuur, G. steuer, Icel.
st. *186. See Steer, v. t.] [Written also stere.]

Defn: A rudder or helm. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEER
Steer, n. Etym: [AS. steóra. See Steer a rudder.]

Defn: A helmsman, a pilot. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEERABLE
Steer"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being steered; dirigible.

STEERAGE
Steer"age, n.

1. The act or practice of steering, or directing; as, the steerage of
a ship.
He left the city, and, in a most tempestuous season, forsook the helm
and steerage of the common wealth. Milton.

2. (Naut.)
(a) The effect of the helm on a ship; the manner in which an
individual ship is affected by the helm.
(b) The hinder part of a vessel; the stern. [R.] Swift.
(c) Properly, the space in the after part of a vessel, under the
cabin, but used generally to indicate any part of a vessel having the
poorest accommodations and occupied by passengers paying the lowest
rate of fare.

3. Direction; regulation; management; guidance.
He that hath the steerage of my course. Shak.

4. That by which a course is directed. [R.]
Here he hung on high, The steerage of his wings. Dryden.
Steerage passenger, a passenger who takes passage in the steerage of
a vessel.

STEERAGEWAY
Steer"age*way`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A rate of motion through the water sufficient to render a
vessel governable by the helm.

STEERER
Steer"er, n.

Defn: One who steers; as, a boat steerer.

STEERING
Steer"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Steer, v. Steering wheel (Naut.), the wheel by means of
which the rudder of a vessel is turned and the vessel is steered.

STEERLESS
Steer"less, a.

Defn: Having no rudder. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEERLING
Steer"ling, n.

Defn: A young small steer.

STEERSMAN
Steers"man, n.; pl. Steersmen. Etym: [Steer a rudder + man: cf. AS.
steórman.]

Defn: One who steers; the helmsman of a vessel. Milton.

STEERSMATE
Steers"mate, n. Etym: [Steer a rudder + mate a companion.]

Defn: One who steers; steersman. [Obs.] Milton.

STEEVE
Steeve, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Steeved; p. pr. & vb. n. Steeving.] Etym:
[Cf. OD. steve staff, E. stem, n.] (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To project upward, or make an angle with the horizon or with
the line of a vessel's keel; -- said of the bowsprit, etc.

STEEVE
Steeve, v. t.

1. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To elevate or fix at an angle with the horizon; -- said of the
bowsprit, etc.

2. To stow, as bales in a vessel's hold, by means of a steeve. See
Steeve, n. (b).

STEEVE
Steeve, n. (Naut.)
(a) The angle which a bowsprit makes with the horizon, or with the
line of the vessel's keel; -- called also steeving.
(b) A spar, with a block at one end, used in stowing cotton bales,
and similar kinds of cargo which need to be packed tightly.

STEEVING
Steev"ing, n.

1. The act or practice of one who steeves.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: See Steeve, n. (a).

STEG
Steg, n. Etym: [Icel. steggr the male of several animals. Cf. Stag.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A gander. [Written also stag.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STEGANOGRAPHIST
Steg`a*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One skilled in steganography; a cryptographer.

STEGANOGRAPHY
Steg`a*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The art of writing in cipher, or in characters which are not
intelligible except to persons who have the key; cryptography.

STEGANOPHTHALMATA
Steg`a*noph*thal"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Discophora, or Phanerocarpæ. Called also Steganophthalmia.

STEGANOPOD
Ste*gan"o*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Steganopodes.

STEGANOPODES
Steg`a*nop"o*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of swimming birds in which all four toes are united
by a broad web. It includes the pelicans, cormorants, gannets, and
others.

STEGANOPODOUS
Steg`a*nop"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having all four toes webbed together.

STEGNOSIS
Steg*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Stegnotic.] (Med.)

Defn: Constipation; also, constriction of the vessels or ducts.

STEGNOTIC
Steg*no"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to render costive, or to diminish excretions or
discharges generally.
 -- n.

Defn: A stegnotic medicine; an astringent.

STEGOCEPHALA
Steg`o*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of amphibians found fossil in the Mesozoic
rocks; called also Stegocephali, and Labyrinthodonta.

Note: Their teeth, in transverse sections, usually show a
labyrinthiform arrangement of the cement and dentine. The under side
of the body was covered with bony plates. Some of the Stegocephala
were of very large size, and the form of the body varied from short,
stout forms to others that were as slender as serpents.

STEGOSAURIA
Steg`o*sau"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Stegosaurus.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs, including the genera
Stegosaurus, Omosaurus, and their allies.

STEGOSAURUS
Steg`o*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of large Jurassic dinosaurs remarkable for a powerful
dermal armature of plates and spines.

STEIK
Steik, v. t.

Defn: See Steek. [Scot.]

STEIN
Stein, n. & v.

Defn: See Steen.

STEINBOCK
Stein"bock`, n. Etym: [G. stein stone + bock buck, D. bok. Cf.
Steenbok.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The European ibex.
(b) A small South African antelope (Nanotragus tragulus) which
frequents dry, rocky districts; -- called also steenbok. [Written
also steinboc, and steinbok; also called stonebock, and stonebuck.]

STEINGALE
Stein"gale, n.

Defn: The stannel. [Prov. Eng.]

STEINING
Stein"ing, n.

Defn: See Steening.

STEINKIRK
Stein"kirk`, n.

Defn: Same as Steenkirk.

STEINKLE
Stein"kle, n.

Defn: The wheater. [Prov. Eng.]

STELA
Ste"la, n.; pl. Stelæ. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A small column or pillar, used as a monument, milestone, etc.

STELE
Ste"le, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Stela.
One of these steles, containing the Greek version of the ordinance,
has recently been discovered. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

STELE
Stele, n. Etym: [See Stale a handle.]

Defn: A stale, or handle; a stalk. [Obs.] Chaucer. Holland.

STELENE
Ste"lene, a. Etym: [See Stela.]

Defn: Resembling, or used as, a stela; columnar. [R.]

STELL
Stell, v. t. Etym: [AS. stellan. *163.]

Defn: To place or fix firmly or permanently. [Obs.] Shak.

STELL
Stell, n. Etym: [See Stell, v. t.]

1. A prop; a support, as for the feet in standing or cilmbing.
[Scot.]

2. A partial inclosure made by a wall or trees, to serve as a shelter
for sheep or cattle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STELLAR; STELLARY
Stel"lar, Stel"la*ry, a. Etym: [L. stellaris, fr. stella a star. See
Star.]

1. Of or pertaining to stars; astral; as, a stellar figure; stellary
orbs.
[These soft fires] in part shed down Their stellar virtue. Milton.

2. Full of stars; starry; as, stellar regions.

STELLATE; STELLATED
Stel"late, Stel"la*ted, a. Etym: [L. stellatus, p.p. of stellare to
set or cover with stars, from stella a star. See Stellar.]

1. Resembling a star; pointed or radiated, like the emblem of a star.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Starlike; having similar parts radiating from a common center;
as, stellate flowers.

STELLATION
Stel*la"tion, n.

Defn: Radiation of light. [Obs.]

STELLED
Stelled, a. Etym: [See Stell to place.]

Defn: Firmly placed or fixed. [Obs.] "The stelled fires" [the stars].
Shak.

Note: [In this passage by some defined as "starry," as if from
stellatus.]

STELLER
Stel"ler, n. Etym: [After Geo. W.Steller, a German naturalist.]
(Zoöl)

Defn: The rytina; -- called also stellerine.

STELLERID
Stel"ler*id, n. Etym: [L. stella a star.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A starfish.

STELLERIDA
Stel*ler"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of echinoderms, comprising the starfishes
and ophiurans.

STELLERIDAN; STELLERIDEAN
Stel*ler"i*dan, Stel`ler*id"e*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A starfish, or brittle star.

STELLIFEROUS
Stel*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. stellifer; stella star + ferre 8bear.]

Defn: Having, or abounding with, stars.

STELLIFORM
Stel"li*form, a. Etym: [L. stella a star + -form.]

Defn: Like a star; star-shaped; radiated.

STELLIFY
Stel"li*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. stella a star + -fy.]

Defn: To turn into a star; to cause to appear like a star; to place
among the stars, or in heaven. [Obs. or R.] B. Jonson.

STELLION
Stel"lion, n. Etym: [L. stellio a newt having starlike spots on its
back, fr. stella a star.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lizard (Stellio vulgaris), common about the Eastern
Mediterranean among ruins. In color it is olive-green, shaded with
black, with small stellate spots. Called also hardim, and star
lizard.

STELLIONATE
Stel"lion*ate, n. Etym: [L. stellionatus cozenage, trickery, fr.
stellio a newt, a crafty, knavish person.] (Scots & Roman Law)

Defn: Any fraud not distinguished by a more special name; -- chiefly
applied to sales of the same property to two different persons, or
selling that for one's own which belongs to another, etc. Erskine.

STELLULAR
Stel"lu*lar, a. Etym: [L. stellula, dim. of stella a star.]

1. Having the shape or appearance of little stars; radiated.

2. Marked with starlike spots of color.

STELLULATE
Stel"lu*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Minutely stellate.

STELMATOPODA
Stel`ma*top"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Gymnolæmata.

STELOGRAPHY
Ste*log"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. Gr.

Defn: The art of writing or inscribing characters on pillars. [R.]
Stackhouse.

STEM; STEEM
Stem, Steem, v. i.

Defn: To gleam. [Obs.]
His head bald, that shone as any glass, . . . [And] stemed as a
furnace of a leed [caldron]. Chaucer.

STEM; STEEM
Stem, Steem, n.

Defn: A gleam of light; flame. [Obs.]

STEM
Stem, n. Etym: [AS. stemn, stefn, stæfn; akin to OS. stamn the stem
of a ship, D. stam stem, steven stem of a ship, G. stamm stem, steven
stem of a ship, Icel. stafn, stamn, stem of a ship, stofn, stomn,
stem, Sw. stam a tree trunk, Dan. stamme. Cf. Staff, Stand.]

1. The principal body of a tree, shrub, or plant, of any kind; the
main stock; the part which supports the branches or the head or top.
After they are shot up thirty feet in length, they spread a very
large top, having no bough nor twig in the trunk or the stem. Sir W.
Raleigh.
The lowering spring, with lavish rain, Beats down the slender stem
and breaded grain. Dryden.

2. A little branch which connects a fruit, flower, or leaf with a
main branch; a peduncle, pedicel, or petiole; as, the stem of an
apple or a cherry.

3. The stock of a family; a race or generation of progenitors. "All
that are of noble stem." Milton.
While I do pray, learn here thy stem And true descent. Herbert.

4. A branch of a family.
This is a stem Of that victorious stock. Shak.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: A curved piece of timber to which the two sides of a ship are
united at the fore end. The lower end of it is scarfed to the keel,
and the bowsprit rests upon its upper end. Hence, the forward part of
a vessel; the bow.

6. Fig.: An advanced or leading position; the lookout.
Wolsey sat at the stem more than twenty years. Fuller.

7. Anything resembling a stem or stalk; as, the stem of a tobacco
pipe; the stem of a watch case, or that part to which the ring, by
which it is suspended, is attached.

8. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of a plant which bears leaves, or rudiments of
leaves, whether rising above ground or wholly subterranean.

9. (Zoöl.)
(a) The entire central axis of a feather.
(b) The basal portion of the body of one of the Pennatulacea, or of a
gorgonian.

10. (Mus.)

Defn: The short perpendicular line added to the body of a note; the
tail of a crotchet, quaver, semiquaver, etc.

11. (Gram.)

Defn: The part of an inflected word which remains unchanged (except
by euphonic variations) throughout a given inflection; theme; base.
From stem to stern (Naut.), from one end of the ship to the other, or
through the whole length.
 -- Stem leaf (Bot.), a leaf growing from the stem of a plant, as
contrasted with a basal or radical leaf.

STEM
Stem, v. t.

1. To remove the stem or stems from; as, to stem cherries; to remove
the stem and its appendages (ribs and veins) from; as, to stem
tobacco leaves.

2. To ram, as clay, into a blasting hole.

STEM
Stem, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stemmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stemming.] Etym:
[Either from stem, n., or akin to stammer; cf. G. stemmen to press
against.]

Defn: To oppose or cut with, or as with, the stem of a vessel; to
resist, or make progress against; to stop or check the flow of, as a
current. "An argosy to stem the waves." Shak.
[They] stem the flood with their erected breasts. Denham.
Stemmed the wild torrent of a barbarous age. Pope.

STEM
Stem, v. i.

Defn: To move forward against an obstacle, as a vessel against a
current.
Stemming nightly toward the pole. Milton.

STEM-CLASPING
Stem"-clasp`ing, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Embracing the stem with its base; amplexicaul; as a leaf or
petiole.

STEMLESS
Stem"less, a.

Defn: Having no stem; (Bot.) acaulescent.

STEMLET
Stem"let, n.

Defn: A small or young stem.

STEMMA
Stem"ma, n.; pl. Stemmata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the ocelli of an insect. See Ocellus.
(b) One of the facets of a compound eye of any arthropod.

STEMMER
Stem"mer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stems (in any of the senses of the
verbs).

STEMMERY
Stem"mer*y, n.

Defn: A large building in which tobacco is stemmed. [U. S.] Bartlett.

STEMMY
Stem"my, a.

Defn: Abounding in stems, or mixed with stems; -- said of tea, dried
currants, etc. [Colloq.]

STEMPLE
Stem"ple, n. Etym: [G. stempel a stamp, a prop, akin to E. stamp.]
(Mining)

Defn: A crossbar of wood in a shaft, serving as a step.

STEMSON
Stem"son, n. Etym: [See Stem, n., and Keelson, and cf. Sternson.]
(Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of curved timber bolted to the stem, keelson, and apron
in a ship's frame near the bow.

STEM-WINDER
Stem"-wind`er, n.

Defn: A stem-winding watch. [Colloq.]

STEM-WINDING
Stem"-wind`ing, a.

Defn: Wound by mechanism connected with the stem; as, a stem-winding
watch.

STENCH
Stench, v. t.

Defn: To stanch. [Obs.] Harvey.

STENCH
Stench, n. Etym: [AS. stenc a strong smell, fr. stincan. See Stink,
v. i.]

1. A smell; an odor. [Obs.]
Clouds of savory stench involve the sky. Dryden.

2. An ill smell; an offensive odor; a stink. Cowper. Stench trap, a
contrivance to prevent stench or foul air from rising from the
openings of sewers, drains, etc.

STENCH
Stench, v. t. Etym: [AS. stencan to emit a smell, fr. stincan to
smell. See Stench, n.]

Defn: To cause to emit a disagreeable odor; to cause to stink. [Obs.]
Young.

STENCHY
Stench"y, a.

Defn: Having a stench. [Obs.] Dyer.

STENCIL
Sten"cil, n. Etym: [Probably from OF. estincelle spangle, spark, F.
étincelle spark, L. scintilla. See Scintillate, and cf. Tinsel.]

Defn: A thin plate of metal, leather, or other material, used in
painting, marking, etc. The pattern is cut out of the plate, which is
then laid flat on the surface to be marked, and the color brushed
over it. Called also stencil plate.

STENCIL
Sten"cil, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stenciled or Stencilled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Stenciling or Stencilling.]

Defn: To mark, paint, or color in figures with stencils; to form or
print by means of a stencil.

STENCILER
Sten"cil*er, n.

Defn: One who paints or colors in figures by means of stencil.
[Written also stenciller.]

STENODERM
Sten"o*derm, n. Etym: [Gr. -derm.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of bat belonging to the genus Stenoderma, native of
the West Indies and South America. These bats have a short or
rudimentary tail and a peculiarly shaped nose membrane.

STENODERMINE
Sten`o*der"mine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Stenoderma, which includes
several West Indian and South American nose-leaf bats.

STENOGRAPH
Sten"o*graph, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stenographed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stenographing.]

Defn: To write or report in stenographic characters.

STENOGRAPH
Sten"o*graph, n.

Defn: A production of stenography; anything written in shorthand.
I saw the reporters' room, in which they redact their hasty
stenographs. Emerson.

STENOGRAPHER
Ste*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who is skilled in stenography; a writer of shorthand.

STENOGRAPHIC; STENOGRAPHICAL
Sten`o*graph"ic, Sten`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
sténographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to stenography.

STENOGRAPHIST
Ste*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A stenographer.

STENOGRAPHY
Ste*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. graphy: cf. F. sténographie, G.
stenographie.]

Defn: The art of writing in shorthand, by using abbreviations or
characters for whole words; shorthand.

STENOPHYLLOUS
Ste*noph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having narrow leaves.

STENOSIS
Ste*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A narrowing of the opening or hollow of any passage, tube, or
orifice; as, stenosis of the pylorus. It differs from stricture in
being applied especially to diffused rather than localized
contractions, and in always indicating an origin organic and not
spasmodic.

STENOSTOME
Sten"o*stome, a. Etym: [Gr. steno`s narrow, little + sto`ma mouth.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a small or narrow mouth; -- said of certain small ground
snakes (Opoterodonta), which are unable to dilate their jaws.

STENT
Stent, v. t. [Obs. imp. Stente; obs. p. p. Stent.] Etym: [See Stint.]

Defn: To keep within limits; to restain; to cause to stop, or cease;
to stint.
Then would he weep, he might not be stent. Chaucer.
Yet n'ould she stent Her bitter railing and foul revilement. Spenser.

STENT
Stent, v. i.

Defn: To stint; to stop; to cease.
And of this cry they would never stenten. Chaucer.

STENT
Stent, n.

Defn: An allotted portion; a stint. "Attain'd his journey's stent."
Mir. for Mag.

STENTING
Stent"ing, n.

Defn: An opening in a wall in a coal mine. [Written also stenton.]
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STENTOR
Sten"tor, n. Etym: [L. Stentor, Gr.

1. A herald, in the Iliad, who had a very loud voice; hence, any
person having a powerful voice.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to the genus
Stentor and allied genera, common in fresh water. The stentors have a
bell-shaped, or cornucopia-like, body with a circle of cilia around
the spiral terminal disk. See Illust. under Heterotricha.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A howling monkey, or howler.

STENTORIAN
Sten*to"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. stentoreus; cf. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a stentor; extremely loud; powerful; as, a
stentorian voice; stentorian lungs.

STENTORIN
Sten"to*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A blue coloring matter found in some stentors. See Stentor, 2.

STENTORIOUS
Sten*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Stentorian. [R.]

STENTORONIC
Sten`to*ron"ic, a.

Defn: Stentorian. [Obs.]

STENTOROPHONIC
Sten`to*ro*phon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Stentor.]

Defn: Speaking or sounding very loud; stentorian. [Obs.]
Of this stentorophonic horn of Alexander there is a preserved in the
Vatican. Derham.

STEP
Step, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stepped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stepping.] Etym:
[AS. stæppan; akin to OFries. steppa, D. stappen to step, stap a
step, OHG. stepfen to step, G. stapfe a footstep, OHG. stapfo, G.
stufe a step to step on; cf. Gr. Stamp, n. & a.]

1. To move the foot in walking; to advance or recede by raising and
moving one of the feet to another resting place, or by moving both
feet in succession.

2. To walk; to go on foot; esp., to walk a little distance; as, to
step to one of the neighbors.

3. To walk slowly, gravely, or resolutely.
Home the swain retreats, His flock before him stepping to the fold.
Thomson.

4. Fig.: To move mentally; to go in imagination.
They are stepping almost three thousand years back into the remotest
antiquity. Pope.
To step aside, to walk a little distance from the rest; to retire
from company.
 -- To step forth, to move or come forth.
 -- To step in or into. (a) To walk or advance into a place or state,
or to advance suddenly in.
Whosoever then first, after the troubling of the water, stepped in,
was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. John v. 4.
(b) To enter for a short time; as, I just stepped into the house. (c)
To obtain possession without trouble; to enter upon easily or
suddenly; as, to step into an estate.
 -- To step out. (a) (Mil.) To increase the length, but not the
rapidity, of the step, extending it to thirty-tree inches. (b) To go
out for a short distance or a short time.
 -- To step short (Mil.), to diminish the length or rapidity of the
step according to the established rules.

STEP
Step, v. t.

1. To set, as the foot.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect. To step off,
to measure by steps, or paces; hence, to divide, as a space, or to
form a series of marks, by successive measurements, as with dividers.

STEP
Step, n. Etym: [AS. stæpe. See Step, v. i.]

1. An advance or movement made by one removal of the foot; a pace.

2. A rest, or one of a set of rests, for the foot in ascending or
descending, as a stair, or a round of a ladder.
The breadth of every single step or stair should be never less than
one foot. Sir H. Wotton.

3. The space passed over by one movement of the foot in walking or
running; as, one step is generally about three feet, but may be more
or less. Used also figuratively of any kind of progress; as, he
improved step by step, or by steps.
To derive two or three general principles of motion from phenomena,
and afterwards to tell us how the properties and actions of all
corporeal things follow from those manifest principles, would be a
very great step in philosophy. Sir I. Newton.

4. A small space or distance; as, it is but a step.

5. A print of the foot; a footstep; a footprint; track.

6. Gait; manner of walking; as, the approach of a man is often known
by his step.

7. Proceeding; measure; action; an act.
The reputation of a man depends on the first steps he makes in the
world. Pope.
Beware of desperate steps. The darkest day, Live till to-morrow, will
have passed away. Cowper.
I have lately taken steps . . . to relieve the old gentleman's
distresses. G. W. Cable.

8. pl.

Defn: Walk; passage.
Conduct my steps to find the fatal tree. Dryden.

9. pl.

Defn: A portable framework of stairs, much used indoors in reaching
to a high position.

10. (Naut.)

Defn: In general, a framing in wood or iron which is intended to
receive an upright shaft; specif., a block of wood, or a solid
platform upon the keelson, supporting the heel of the mast.

11. (Mach.)
(a) One of a series of offsets, or parts, resembling the steps of
stairs, as one of the series of parts of a cone pulley on which the
belt runs.
(b) A bearing in which the lower extremity of a spindle or a vertical
shaft revolves.

12. (Mus.)

Defn: The intervak between two contiguous degrees of the csale.

Note: The word tone is often used as the name of this interval; but
there is evident incongruity in using tone for indicating the
interval between tones. As the word scale is derived from the Italian
scala, a ladder, the intervals may well be called steps.

13. (Kinematics)

Defn: A change of position effected by a motion of translation. W. K.
Clifford. Back step, Half step, etc. See under Back, Half, etc.
 -- Step grate, a form of grate for holding fuel, in which the bars
rise above one another in the manner of steps.
 -- To take steps, to take action; to move in a matter.

STEP-
Step-. Etym: [AS. steóp-; akin to OFries. stiap-, stiep-, D. & G.
stief-, OHG. stiuf-, Icel. stj, Sw. styf-, and to AS. astepan,
asteópan, to deprive, bereave, as children of their parents, OHG.
stiufen.]

Defn: A prefix used before father, mother, brother, sister, son,
daughter, child, etc., to indicate that the person thus spoken of is
not a blood relative, but is a relative by the marriage of a parent;
as, a stepmother to X is the wife of the father of X, married by him
after the death of the mother of X. See Stepchild, Stepdaughter,
Stepson, etc.

STEPBROTHER
Step"broth`er, n.

Defn: A brother by the marriage of one's father with the mother of
another, or of one's mother with the father of another.

STEPCHILD
Step"child`, n. Etym: [AS. steópcild.]

1. A bereaved child; one who has lost father or mother. [Obs.]

2. A son or daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.

STEPDAME
Step"dame`, n.

Defn: A stepmother. Spenser.

STEPDAUGHTER
Step"daugh`ter, n. Etym: [AS. steópdohtor.]

Defn: A daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.

STEP-DOWN
Step"-down`, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Transforming or converting a current of high potential or
pressure into one of low pressure; as, a step-down transformer.

STEPFATHER
Step"fa`ther, n. Etym: [AS. steópfæder.]

Defn: The husband of one's mother by a subsequent marriage.

STEPHANION
Ste*pha"ni*on, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The point on the side of the skull where the temporal line, or
upper edge of the temporal fossa, crosses the coronal suture.

STEPHANITE
Steph"an*ite, n. Etym: [So named after the Archduke Stephan, mining
director of Austria.] (Min.)

Defn: A sulphide of antimony and silver of an iron-black color and
metallic luster; called also black silver, and brittle silver ore.

STEPHANOTIS
Steph`a*no"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of climbing asclepiadaceous shrubs, of Madagascar,
Malaya, etc. They have fleshy or coriaceous opposite leaves, and
large white waxy flowers in cymes.

2. A perfume said to be prepared from the flowers of Stephanotis
floribunda.

STEPLADDER
Step"lad`der, n.

Defn: A portable set of steps.

STEPMOTHER
Step"moth`er, n. Etym: [AS. steópmoder.]

Defn: The wife of one's father by a subsequent marriage.

STEPPARENT
Step"par`ent, n.

Defn: Stepfather or stepmother.

STEPPE
Steppe, n. Etym: [From Russ. stepe, through G. or F. steppe.]

Defn: One of the vast plains in Southeastern Europe and in Asia,
generally elevated, and free from wood, analogous to many of the
prairies in Western North America. See Savanna. Steppe murrain.
(Far.) See Rinderpest.

STEPPED
Stepped, a.

Defn: Provided with a step or steps; having a series of offsets or
parts resembling the steps of stairs; as, a stepped key. Stepped
gear, a cogwheel of which the teeth cross the face in a series of
steps.

STEPPER
Step"per, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, steps; as, a quick stepper.

STEPPING-STONE
Step"ping-stone`, n.

1. A stone to raise the feet above the surface of water or mud in
walking.

2. Fig.: A means of progress or advancement.
These obstacles his genius had turned into stepping-stones. Macaulay.
That men may rise on stepping-stones Of their dead selves to higher
things. Tennyson.

STEPSISTER
Step"sis`ter, n.

Defn: A daughter of one's stepfather or stepmother by a former
marriage.

STEPSON
Step"son`, n. Etym: [AS. steópsunu.]

Defn: A son of one's husband or wife by a former marriage.

STEPSTONE
Step"stone`, n.

Defn: A stone laid before a door as a stair to rise on in entering
the house.

STEP-UP
Step"-up`, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Transforming or converting a low-pressure current into one of
high pressure; as, a step-up transformer.

-STER
-ster. Etym: [OE. & AS. -estre, -istre.]

Defn: A suffix denoting the agent (originally a woman), especially a
person who does something with skill or as an occupation; as in
spinster (originally, a woman who spins), songster, baxter (=
bakester), youngster.

Note: Brewing, baking, and weaving were formerly feminine labors, and
consequently brewster, baxter, and webster meant, originally, the
woman (not the man) who brews, bakes, or weaves. When men began to
perform these duties the feminine appellations were retained.

STERCOBILIN
Ster`co*bi"lin, n. Etym: [L. stercus dung + E. bilin.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: A coloring matter found in the fæces, a product of the
alteration of the bile pigments in the intestinal canal, -- identical
with hydrobilirubin.

STERCOLIN
Ster"co*lin, n. Etym: [L. stercus dung + oleum oil.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Serolin (b).

STERCORACEOUS
Ster`co*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. stercus, -oris, dung.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to dung; partaking of the nature of, or
containing, dung.

STERCORANISM
Ster"co*ra*nism, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.

STERCORANIST
Ster"co*ra*nist, n. Etym: [LL. stercoranista, fr. L. stercus, -oris,
dung.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A nickname formerly given to those who held, or were alleged to
hold, that the consecrated elements in the eucharist undergo the
process of digestion in the body of the recipient.

STERCORARIAN
Ster`co*ra"ri*an, n.

Defn: A Stercoranist.

STERCORARY
Ster"co*ra*ry, n. Etym: [LL. stercorarium, from L. stercorarius
belonging to dung.]

Defn: A place, properly secured from the weather, for containing
dung.

STERCORATE
Ster"co*rate, n.

Defn: Excrement; dung. [Obs.]

STERCORATION
Ster`co*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. stercoratio, from stercorare to dung.]

Defn: Manuring with dung. [Obs.] Bacon.

STERCORIANISM
Ster*co"ri*an*ism, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.

STERCORIN
Ster"co*rin, n. Etym: [L. stercus, -oris, dung.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Serolin (b).

STERCORY
Ster"co*ry, n.

Defn: Excrement; dung. [Obs.]

STERCULIACEOUS
Ster*cu`li*a"ceous, a. Etym: [NL. Sterculia, the typical genus, fr.
L. Sterculius the deity that presided over manuring, from stercus
dung. So called because one of the original species is fetid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sterculiaceæ) of
polypetalous exogenous plants, mostly tropical. The cacao (Theobroma
Cacao) is the most useful plant of the order.

STERE
Stere, n. Etym: [F. stère, fr. Gr.

Defn: A unit of cubic measure in the metric system, being a cubic
meter, or kiloliter, and equal to 35.3 cubic feet, or nearly 1

STERE
Stere, v. t. & i.

Defn: To stir. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STERE
Stere, n.

Defn: A rudder. See 5th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STERE
Stere, n.

Defn: Helmsman. See 6th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STERELMINTHA
Ster`el*min"tha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. stereo`s solid + (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Platyelminthes.

STEREO-
Ste"re*o-. Etym: [Gr. stereo`s solid. See Stare to gaze.]

Defn: A combining form meaning solid, hard, firm, as in stereo-
chemistry, stereography.

STEREOBATE
Ste"re*o*bate, n. Etym: [Gr. stereo`s solid + stéréobate.] (Arch.)

Defn: The lower part or basement of a building or pedestal; -- used
loosely for several different forms of basement.

STEREO-CHEMIC; STEREO-CHEMICAL
Ste`re*o-chem"ic, Ste`re*o-chem"ic*al, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or illustrating, the hypothetical space
relations of atoms in the molecule; as, a stereo-chemic formula.