

TURACOU
Tu*ra"cou, n. Etym: [Cf. F. touraco.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of plantain eaters of the genus
Turacus, native of Africa. They are remarkable for the peculiar green
and red pigments found in their feathers. [Written also touraco, and
touracou.]

TURACOVERDIN
Tu*ra`co*ver"din, n. Etym: [See Turacou, and Verdant.] (Physiol.)
(Chem.)

Defn: A green pigment found in the feathers of the turacou. See
Turacin.

TURANIAN
Tu*ra"ni*an, a. Etym: [From Tur, the name, in Persian legendary
history, of one of the three brothers from whom sprang the races of
mankind.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an extensive family of
languages of simple structure and low grade (called also Altaic,
Ural-Altaic, and Scythian), spoken in the northern parts of Europe
and Asia and Central Asia; of pertaining to, or designating, the
people who speak these languages.

TURANIAN
Tu*ra"ni*an, n.

Defn: One of the Turanians.

TURANIANS
Tu*ra"ni*ans, n. pl. (Ethnol.)
(a) An extensive division of mankind including the Mongols and allied
races of Asia, together with the Malays and Polynesians.
(b) A group of races or tribes inhabiting Asia and closely related to
the Mongols.

TURATT
Tu"ratt, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hare kangaroo.

TURBAN
Tur"ban, n. Etym: [OE. turband, turbant, tolibant, F. turban, It.
turbante, Turk. tulbend, dulbend, fr. Per. dulband. Cf. Tulip.]

1. A headdress worn by men in the Levant and by most Mohammedans of
the male sex, consisting of a cap, and a sash, scarf, or shawl,
usually of cotton or linen, wound about the cap, and sometimes
hanging down the neck.

2. A kind of headdress worn by women.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whole set of whorls of a spiral shell.

TURBAND
Tur"band, n.

Defn: A turban. Balfour (Cyc. of Ind.).

TURBANED
Tur"baned, a.

Defn: Wearing a turban. " A malignant and a turbaned Turk." Shak.

TURBAN-SHELL
Tur"ban-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sea urchin when deprived of its spines; -- popularly so
called from a fancied resemblance to a turban.

TURBANT
Tur"bant, n.

Defn: A turban. [Obs.] Milton.
I see the Turk nodding with his turbant. Howell.

TURBAN-TOP
Tur"ban-top`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of fungus with an irregularly wrinkled, somewhat
globular pileus (Helvella, or Gyromitra, esculenta.).

TURBARY
Tur"ba*ry, n.; pl. Turbaries. Etym: [LL. turbaria a place for digging
peat, from turba peat. See Turf.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: A right of digging turf on another man's land; also, the ground
where turf is dug.

TURBELLARIA
Tur`bel*la"ri*a, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. turbo a whirling.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of worms which have the body covered
externally with vibrating cilia. It includes the Rhabdocoela and
Dendrocoela. Formerly, the nemerteans were also included in this
group.

TURBELLARIAN
Tur`bel*la"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Turbellaria. Also used adjectively.

TURBETH
Tur"beth, n.

Defn: See Turpeth.

TURBID
Tur"bid, a. Etym: [L. turbidus, from turba tumult, disturbance, akin
to turbare to disturb. See Trouble, and cf. Disturb, Perturb.]

1. Having the lees or sediment disturbed; roiled; muddy; thick; not
clear; -- used of liquids of any kind; as, turbid water; turbid wine.
On that strong, turbid water, a small boat, Guided by one weak hand,
was seen to float. Whittier.

2. Disturbed; confused; disordered. " Such turbid intervals that use
to attend close prisoners." Howell.

TURBIDITY
Tur*bid"i*ty, n.

Defn: Turbidness.

TURBIDLY
Tur"bid*ly, adv.

1. In a turbid manner; with muddiness or confusion.

2. Proudly; haughtily. [A Latinism. R.]
One of great merit turbidly resents them. Young.

TURBIDNESS
Tur"bid*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being turbid; muddiness; foulness.

TURBILLION
Tur*bil"lion, n. Etym: [F. tourbillon, from L. turbo a whirl.]

Defn: A whirl; a vortex. Spectator.

TURBINACEOUS
Tur`bi*na"ceous, a. Etym: [See Turbary.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to peat, or turf; of the nature of peat, or
turf; peaty; turfy. Sir. W. Scott.

TURBINAL
Tur"bi*nal, a. Etym: [L. turbo, turben, -inis, a top, whirl.] (Anat.)

Defn: Rolled in a spiral; scroll-like; turbinate; -- applied to the
thin, plicated, bony or cartilaginous plates which support the
olfactory and mucous membranes of the nasal chambers.

Note: There are usually several of these plates in each nasal
chamber. The upper ones, connected directly with the ethmoid bone,
are called ethmoturbinals, and the lower, connected with the maxillæ,
maxillo-turbinals. Incurved portions of the wall of the nasal chamber
are sometimes called pseudoturbinals, to distinguish them from the
true turbinals which are free outgrowths into the chambers.

TURBINAL
Tur"bi*nal, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A turbinal bone or cartilage.

TURBINATE
Tur"bi*nate, v. i.

Defn: To revolve or spin like a top; to whirl. [R.]

TURBINATE; TURBINATED
Tur"bi*nate, Tur"bi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. turbinatus, turbo, turben, -
inis, a whirl, top.]

1. Whirling in the manner of a top.
A spiral and turbinated motion of the whole. Bentley.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a top, or inverted cone; narrow at the base, and
broad at the apex; as, a turbinated ovary, pericarp, or root.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Turbinal.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Spiral with the whorls decreasing rapidly from a large base to
a pointed apex; -- said of certain shells.

TURBINATION
Tur`bi*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. L. tirbinatio a pointing in the form of
a cone. See Turbinate.]

Defn: The act of spinning or whirling, as a top.

TURBINE
Tur"bine, n. Etym: [L. turbo, -inis, that which spins or whirls
round, whirl.]

Defn: A water wheel, commonly horizontal, variously constructed, but
usually having a series of curved floats or buckets, against which
the water acts by its impulse or reaction in flowing either outward
from a central chamber, inward from an external casing, or from above
downward, etc.; -- also called turbine wheel.

Note: In some turbines, the water is supplied to the wheel from
below, instead of above. Turbines in which the water flows in a
direction parallel to the axis are called parallel-flow turbines.

TURBINELLA
Tur`bi*nel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. turbo, -inis, a top.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large marine gastropods having a thick heavy shell
with conspicuous folds on the columella.

TURBINITE
Tur"bi*nite, n. Etym: [NL. Turbo, the generic name, fr. L. turbo a
whirl, top: cf. F. turbinite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A petrified shell resembling the genus Turbo. [R.]

TURBINOID
Tur"bi*noid, a. Etym: [See Turbo, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to Turbo or the family Turbinidæ.

TURBIT
Tur"bit, n. Etym: [Cf. Turbot.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The turbot.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of the domestic pigeon, remarkable for its short
beak.

TURBITE
Tur"bite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil turbo.

TURBITH
Tur"bith, n. Etym: [F., fr. Per. See Turpeth.]

Defn: See Turpeth.

TURBO
Tur"bo, n. Etym: [L. turbo, -inis, a top. See Turbine.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or
family Turbinidæ, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the
inside, and a calcareous operculum.

TURBOGENERATOR
Tur`bo*gen"er*a`tor, n. [See Turbine, and Generator.]

Defn: An electric generator or dynamo which is combined on one frame
with a turbomotor, by which it is driven.

TURBOT
Tur"bot, n. Etym: [F.; -- probably so named from its shape, and from
L. turbo a top, a whirl.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A large European flounder (Rhombus maximus) highly esteemed as a
food fish. It often weighs from thirty to forty pounds. Its color on
the upper side is brownish with small roundish tubercles scattered
over the surface. The lower, or blind, side is white. Called also
bannock fluke.
(b) Any one of numerous species of flounders more or less related to
the true turbots, as the American plaice, or summer flounder (see
Flounder), the halibut, and the diamond flounder (Hypsopsetta
guttulata) of California.
(c) The filefish; -- so called in Bermuda.
(d) The trigger fish. Spotted turbot. See Windowpane.

TURBULENCE
Tur"bu*lence, n. Etym: [L. turbulentia: cf. F. turbulebce.]

Defn: The quality or state of being turbulent; a disturbed state;
tumult; disorder; agitation. Shak.
The years of . . . warfare and turbulence which ensued. Southey.

Syn.
 -- Agitation; commotion; tumult; tumultuousness; termagance;
unruliness; insubordination; rioting.

TURBULENCY
Tur"bu*len*cy, n.

Defn: Turbulence.
What a tale of terror now its turbulency tells! Poe.

TURBULENT
Tur"bu*lent, a. Etym: [L. turbulentus, fr. turba disorder, tumult:
cf. F. turbulent. See Turbid.]

1. Disturbed; agitated; tumultuous; roused to violent commotion; as,
the turbulent ocean.
Calm region once, And full of peace, now tossed and turbulent.
Milton.

2. Disposed to insubordination and disorder; restless; unquiet;
refractory; as, turbulent spirits.
Sagacious, bold, and turbulent of wit. Dryden.

3. Producing commotion; disturbing; exciting.
Whose heads that turbulent liquor fills with fumes. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Disturbed; agitated; tumultuous; riotous; seditious;
insubordinate; refractory; unquiet.

TURBULENTLY
Tur"bu*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a turbulent manner.

TURCISM
Tur"cism, n.

Defn: A mode of speech peculiar to the Turks; a Turkish idiom or
expression; also, in general, a Turkish mode or custom.

TURCOMAN
Tur"co*man, n.; pl. Turcomans (.

1. A member of a tribe of Turanians inhabiting a region east of the
Caspian Sea.

2. A Turcoman carpet. Turcoman carpet or rug, a kind of carpet or rug
supposed to be made by the Turcomans.

TURDIFORMES
Tur`di*for"mes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. turdus a thrush + forma
form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of singing birds including the thrushes and allied
kinds.

TURDUS
Tur"dus, n. Etym: [L., a thrush.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of singing birds including the true thrushes.

TUREEN
Tu*reen", n. Etym: [F. terrine, L. terra earth. See Terrace.]

Defn: A large, deep vessel for holding soup, or other liquid food, at
the table. [Written also terreen.]

TUREENFUL
Tu*reen"ful, n.; pl. Tureenfuls (.

Defn: As much as a tureen can hold; enough to fill a tureen.

TURF
Turf (tûrf), n.; pl. Turfs, Obs. Turves. Etym: [AS. turf; akin to D.
turf peat, G. torf, OHG. zurba turf, Sw. & Icel. torf turf, peat,
Dan. törv, Skr. darbha a kind of grass, a tuft of grass. sq.
root242.]

1. That upper stratum of earth and vegetable mold which is filled
with the roots of grass and other small plants, so as to adhere and
form a kind of mat; sward; sod.
At his head a grass-green turf. Shak.
The Greek historian sets her in the field on a high heap of turves.
Milton.

2. Peat, especially when prepared for fuel. See Peat.

3. Race course; horse racing; -- preceded by the. "We . . . claim the
honors of the turf." Cowper.

Note: Turf is often used adjectively, or to form compounds which are
generally self-explaining; as, turf ashes, turf cutter or turf-
cutter, turf pit or turf-pit, turf-built, turf-clad, turf-covered,
etc. Turf ant (Zoöl.), a small European ant (Formica flava) which
makes small ant-hills on heaths and commons.
 -- Turf drain, a drain made with turf or peat.
 -- Turf hedge, a hedge or fence formed with turf and plants of
different kinds.
 -- Turf house, a house or shed formed of turf, common in the
northern parts of Europe.
 -- Turf moss a tract of turfy, mossy, or boggy land.
 -- Turf spade, a spade for cutting and digging turf, longer and
narrower than the common spade.

TURF
Turf, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Turfed; p. pr. & vb. n. Turfing.]

Defn: To cover with turf or sod; as, to turf a bank, of the border of
a terrace. A. Tucker.

TURFEN
Turf"en, a.

Defn: Made of turf; covered with turf.

TURFINESS
Turf"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being turfy.

TURFING
Turf"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of providing or covering with turf. Turfing
iron, or Turfing spade, an implement for cutting, and paring off,
turf.

TURFITE
Turf"ite, n.

Defn: A votary of the turf, or race course; hence, sometimes, a
blackleg. [Colloq.] Thackeray.

TURFLESS
Turf"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of turf.

TURFMAN
Turf"man, n.; pl. Turfmen (.

Defn: A turfite; a votary of the turf, or race course. [Colloq.]

TURFY
Turf"y, a. [Compar. Turfier; superl. Turfiest.]

1. Abounding with turf; made of, or covered with, turf. "The turfy
mountains." Shak.

2. Having the nature or appearance of turf.

3. Of or pertaining to the turf, or horse racing.

TURGENT
Tur"gent, a. Etym: [L. turgens, -entis, p. pr. of turgere to swell.]

1. Rising into a tumor, or a puffy state; swelling; tumid; as,
turgent humors.

2. Inflated; bombastic; turgid; pompous.
Recompensed with turgent titles. Burton.

TURGESCE
Tur*gesce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Turgesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Turgescing.] Etym: [L. turgescere, v. incho. fr. turgere to swell.]

Defn: To become turgid; to swell or be inflated. [R.]

TURGESCENCE; TURGESCENCY
Tur*ges"cence, Tur*ges"cen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. turgescence. See
Turgescent.]

1. The act of swelling, or the state of being swollen, or turgescent.
Sir T. Browne.

2. Empty magnificence or pompousness; inflation; bombast; turgidity.
Johnson.

TURGESCENT
Tur*ges"cent, a. Etym: [L. turgescens, -entis, p. pr. of turgescere:
cf. F. turgescent. See Turgesce.]

Defn: Becoming turgid or inflated; swelling; growing big.

TURGID
Tur"gid, a. Etym: [L. turgidus, from turgere to swell.]

1. Distended beyond the natural state by some internal agent or
expansive force; swelled; swollen; bloated; inflated; tumid; --
especially applied to an enlarged part of the body; as, a turgid
limb; turgid fruit.
A bladder . . . held near the fire grew turgid. Boyle.

2. Swelling in style or language; vainly ostentatious; bombastic;
pompous; as, a turgid style of speaking.
 -- Tur"gid*ly, adv.
 -- Tur"gid*ness, n.

TURGIDITY
Tur*gid"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being turgid.

TURGIDOUS
Tur"gid*ous, a.

Defn: Turgid. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

TURIO
Tu"ri*o, n.; pl. Turiones. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A shoot or sprout from the ground. Gray.

TURIOLE
Tu"ri*ole, n.

Defn: The golden oriole. [Prov. Eng.]

TURION
Tu"ri*on, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Turio.

TURIONIFEROUS
Tu`ri*o*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. turio a sprout + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing shoots, as asparagus. Barton.

TURK
Turk, n. Etym: [Per. Turk; probably of Tartar origin: cf. F. Turc.]

1. A member of any of numerous Tartar tribes of Central Asia, etc.;
esp., one of the dominant race in Turkey.

2. A native or inhabitant of Turkey.

3. A Mohammedan; esp., one living in Turkey.
It is no good reason for a man's religion that he was born and
brought up in it; for then a Turk would have as much reason to be a
Turk as a Christian to be a Christian. Chillingworth.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The plum weevil. See Curculio, and Plum weevil, under Plum.
Turk's cap. (Bot.) (a) Turk's-cap lily. See under Lily. (b) A tulip.
(c) A plant of the genus Melocactus; Turk's head. See Melon cactus,
under Melon.
 -- Turk's head. (a) (Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form worked on a
rope with a piece of small line. R. H. Dana, Jr. (b) (Bot.) See
Turk's cap (c) above.
 -- Turk's turban (Bot.), a plant of the genus Ranunculus; crowfoot.

TURKEIS
Tur"keis, a. Etym: [Cf. Turquoise.]

Defn: Turkish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TURKEY
Tur"key, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Turkey.]

Defn: An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia.
Turkey carpet, a superior kind of carpet made in Asia Minor and
adjoining countries, having a deep pile and composed of pure wool
with a weft of different material. It is distinguishable by its
coloring and patterns from similar carpets made in India and
elsewhere.
 -- Turkey oak. (Bot.) See Cerris.
 -- Turkey red. (a) A brilliant red imparted by madder to cottons,
calicoes, etc., the fiber of which has been prepared previously with
oil or other fatty matter. (b) Cloth dyed with this red.
 -- Turkey sponge. (Zoöl.) See Toilet sponge, under Sponge.
 -- Turkey stone, a kind of oilstone from Turkey; novaculite; --
called also Turkey oilstone.

TURKEY
Tur"key, n.; pl. Turkeys. Etym: [So called because it was formerly
erroneously believed that it came originally from Turkey: cf. F.
Turquie Turkey. See Turk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any large American gallinaceous bird belonging to the genus
Meleagris, especially the North American wild turkey (Meleagris
gallopavo), and the domestic turkey, which was probably derived from
the Mexican wild turkey, but had been domesticated by the Indians
long before the discovery of America.

Note: The Mexican wild turkey is now considered a variety of the
northern species (var. Mexicana). Its tall feathers and coverts are
tipped with white instead of brownish chestnut, and its flesh is
white. The Central American, or ocellated, turkey (M. ocellata) is
more elegantly colored than the common species. See under Ocellated.
The Australian, or native, turkey is a bustard (Choriotis australis).
See under Native. Turkey beard (Bot.), a name of certain American
perennial liliaceous herbs of the genus Xerophyllum. They have a
dense tuft of hard, narrowly linear radical leaves, and a long raceme
of small whitish flowers. Also called turkey's beard.
 -- Turkey berry (Bot.), a West Indian name for the fruit of certain
kinds of nightshade (Solanum mammosum, and S. torvum).
 -- Turkey bird (Zoöl.), the wryneck. So called because it erects and
ruffles the feathers of its neck when disturbed. [Prov. Eng.] --
Turkey buzzard (Zoöl.), a black or nearly black buzzard (Cathartes
aura), abundant in the Southern United States. It is so called
because its naked and warty head and neck resemble those of a turkey.
Its is noted for its high and graceful flight. Called also turkey
vulture.
 -- Turkey cock (Zoöl.), a male turkey.
 -- Turkey hen (Zoöl.), a female turkey.
 -- Turkey pout (Zoöl.), a young turkey. [R.] -- Turkey vulture
(Zoöl.), the turkey buzzard.

TURKEYS
Tur"keys, a.

Defn: Turkish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TURKEY-TROT
Tur"key-trot`, n.

Defn: An eccentric ragtime dance, danced with the feet well apart and
with a characteristic rise on the ball of the foot, followed by a
drop upon the heel. The original form, owning to the positions
assumed by the dancers, is offensively suggestive. Similar dances are
the bunny hug and grizzly bear, so called in allusion to the
movements and the positions assumed by the partners in dancing.

TURKIC
Turk"ic, a.

Defn: Turkish.

TURKIS
Tur"kis, n. (Min.)

Defn: Turquois. [Obs.]

TURKISH
Turk"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Turkey or the Turks.
 -- n.

Defn: The language spoken by Turks, esp. that of the people of
Turkey.
 -- Turk"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Turk"ish*ness, n.

TURKISM
Turk"ism, n.

Defn: Same as Turcism.

TURKLE
Tur"kle, n.

Defn: A turtle. [Obs. or Illiterate]

TURKO
Turk"o, n.; pl. Turkos. Etym: [F. turco.]

Defn: One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French
army, dressed as a Turk. [Written also Turco.]

TURKO-IRANIAN
Tur`ko-I*ra"ni*an, a. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a mixed racial type including the
Afghans, and characterized chiefly by stature above mean, fair
complexion, dark, or sometimes gray, eyes, brachycephaly, and very
long, prominent, and moderately narrow nose.

TURKO-IRANIAN
Tur`ko-I*ra"ni*an, n.

Defn: A member of any race of the Turko-Iranian type.

TURKOIS
Tur*kois", n. & a.

Defn: Turquoise.

TURKOMAN
Tur"ko*man, n.; pl. Turkomans (.

Defn: Same as Turcoman.

TURK'S-HEAD
Turk's"-head`, n.

1. (Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form  worked on a rope with a piece
of small line.

2.
 (a) The melon cactus. [West Indies]
 (b) Any of several species of Echinocactus. [California]

3.  A long-handled, round-headed broom for sweeping ceilings, etc.
[Colloq. or Dial.]

TURLUPIN
Tur"lu*pin, n. Etym: [F.] (Fr. Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of the precursors of the Reformation; -- a nickname
corresponding to Lollard, etc.

TURM
Turm, n. Etym: [L. turma.]

Defn: A troop; a company. [Obs. or Poetic]
Legions and cohorts, turms of horse and wings. Milton.

TURMALINE
Tur"ma*line, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Tourmaline.

TURMERIC
Tur"mer*ic, n. Etym: [F. terre-mérite, NL. terramerita, turmerica;
apparently meaning, excellent earth, but perhaps a corruption of Ar.
kurkum. Cf. Curcuma.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian plant of the genus Curcuma, of the Ginger
family.

2. The root or rootstock of the Curcuma longa. It is externally
grayish, but internally of a deep, lively yellow or saffron color,
and has a slight aromatic smell, and a bitterish, slightly acrid
taste. It is used for a dye, a medicine, a condiment, and a chemical
test.

TURMERIC
Tur"mer*ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to turmeric; resembling, or obtained from,
turmeric; specif., designating an acid obtained by the oxidation of
turmerol. Turmeric paper (Chem.), paper impregnated with turmeric and
used as a test for alkaline substances, by which it is changed from
yellow to brown.
 -- Turmeric root. (Bot.) (a) Bloodroot. (b) Orangeroot.

TURMEROL
Tur"mer*ol, n. Etym: [Turmeric + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: Turmeric oil, a brownish yellow, oily substance extracted from
turmeric by ligroin.

TURMOIL
Tur"moil, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; perhaps fr. OF. tremouille
the hopper of a mill, trembler to tremble (cf. E. tremble);
influenced by E. turn and moil.]

Defn: Harassing labor; trouble; molestation by tumult; disturbance;
worrying confusion.
And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil, A blessed soul doth in
Elysium. Shak.

TURMOIL
Tur*moil", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Turmoiled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Turmoiling.]

Defn: To harass with commotion; to disquiet; to worry. [Obs.]
It is her fatal misfortune . . . to be miserably tossed and turmoiled
with these storms of affliction. Spenser.

TURMOIL
Tur*moil", v. i.

Defn: To be disquieted or confused; to be in commotion. [Obs.]
Milton.

TURN
Turn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Turned; p. pr. & vb. n. Turning.] Etym:
[OE. turnen, tournen, OF. tourner, torner, turner, F. tourner, LL.
tornare, fr. L. tornare to turn in a lathe, to rounds off, fr. tornus
a lathe, Gr. throw. See Throw, and cf. Attorney, Return, Tornado,
Tour, Tournament.]

1. To cause to move upon a center, or as if upon a center; to give
circular motion to; to cause to revolve; to cause to move round,
either partially, wholly, or repeatedly; to make to change position
so as to present other sides in given directions; to make to face
otherwise; as, to turn a wheel or a spindle; to turn the body or the
head.
Turn the adamantine spindle round. Milton.
The monarch turns him to his royal guest. Pope.

2. To cause to present a different side uppermost or outmost; to make
the upper side the lower, or the inside to be the outside of; to
reverse the position of; as, to turn a box or a board; to turn a
coat.

3. To give another direction, tendency, or inclination to; to direct
otherwise; to deflect; to incline differently; -- used both literally
and figuratively; as, to turn the eyes to the heavens; to turn a
horse from the road, or a ship from her course; to turn the attention
to or from something. "Expert when to advance, or stand, or, turn the
sway of battle." Milton.
Thrice I deluded her, and turned to sport Her importunity. Milton.
My thoughts are turned on peace. Addison.

4. To change from a given use or office; to divert, as to another
purpose or end; to transfer; to use or employ; to apply; to devote.
Therefore he slew him, and turned the kingdom unto David. 1 Chron. x.
14.
God will make these evils the occasion of a greater good, by turning
them to advantage in this world. Tillotson.
When the passage is open, land will be turned most to cattle; when
shut, to sheep. Sir W. Temple.

5. To change the form, quality, aspect, or effect of; to alter; to
metamorphose; to convert; to transform; -- often with to or into
before the word denoting the effect or product of the change; as, to
turn a worm into a winged insect; to turn green to blue; to turn
prose into verse; to turn a Whig to a Tory, or a Hindoo to a
Christian; to turn good to evil, and the like.
The Lord thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon
thee. Deut. xxx. 3.
And David said, O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel
into foolishness. 2 Sam. xv. 31.
Impatience turns an ague into a fever. Jer. Taylor.

6. To form in a lathe; to shape or fashion (anything) by applying a
cutting tool to it while revolving; as, to turn the legs of stools or
tables; to turn ivory or metal.
I had rather hear a brazen canstick turned. Shak.

7. Hence, to give form to; to shape; to mold; to put in proper
condition; to adapt. "The poet's pen turns them to shapes." Shak.
His limbs how turned, how broad his shoulders spread ! Pope.
He was perfectly well turned for trade. Addison.

8. Specifically: --
(a) To translate; to construe; as, to turn the Iliad.
Who turns a Persian tale for half a crown. Pope.

(b) To make acid or sour; to ferment; to curdle, etc.: as, to turn
cider or wine; electricity turns milk quickly.
(c) To sicken; to nauseate; as, an emetic turns one's stomach. To be
turned of, be advanced beyond; as, to be turned of sixty-six.
 -- To turn a cold shoulder to, to treat with neglect or
indifference.
 -- To turn a corner, to go round a corner.
 -- To turn adrift, to cast off, to cease to care for.
 -- To turn a flange (Mech.), to form a flange on, as around a metal
sheet or boiler plate, by stretching, bending, and hammering, or
rolling the metal.
 -- To turn against. (a) To direct against; as, to turn one's
arguments against himself. (b) To make unfavorable or hostile to; as,
to turn one's friends against him.
 -- To turn a hostile army, To turn the enemy's flank, or the like
(Mil.), to pass round it, and take a position behind it or upon its
side.
 -- To turn a penny, or To turn an honest penny, to make a small
profit by trade, or the like.
 -- To turn around one's finger, to have complete control of the will
and actions of; to be able to influence at pleasure.
 -- To turn aside, to avert.
 -- To turn away. (a) To dismiss from service; to discard; as, to
turn away a servant. (b) To avert; as, to turn away wrath or evil.
 -- To turn back. (a) To give back; to return.
We turn not back the silks upon the merchants, When we have soiled
them. Shak.
(b) To cause to return or retrace one's steps; hence, to drive away;
to repel. Shak.
 -- To turn down. (a) To fold or double down. (b) To turn over so as
to conceal the face of; as, to turn down cards. (c) To lower, or
reduce in size, by turning a valve, stopcock, or the like; as, turn
down the lights.
 -- To turn in. (a) To fold or double under; as, to turn in the edge
of cloth. (b) To direct inwards; as, to turn the toes in when
walking. (c) To contribute; to deliver up; as, he turned in a large
amount. [Colloq.] -- To turn in the mind, to revolve, ponder, or
meditate upon; -- with about, over, etc. " Turn these ideas about in
your mind." I. Watts.
 -- To turn off. (a) To dismiss contemptuously; as, to turn off a
sycophant or a parasite. (b) To give over; to reduce. (c) To divert;
to deflect; as, to turn off the thoughts from serious subjects; to
turn off a joke. (d) To accomplish; to perform, as work. (e) (Mech.)
To remove, as a surface, by the process of turning; to reduce in size
by turning. (f) To shut off, as a fluid, by means of a valve,
stopcock, or other device; to stop the passage of; as, to turn off
the water or the gas.
 -- To turn on, to cause to flow by turning a valve, stopcock, or the
like; to give passage to; as, to turn on steam.
 -- To turn one's coat, to change one's uniform or colors; to go over
to the opposite party.
 -- To turn one's goods or money, and the like, to exchange in the
course of trade; to keep in lively exchange or circulation; to gain
or increase in trade.
 -- To turn one's hand to, to adapt or apply one's self to; to engage
in.
 -- To turn out. (a) To drive out; to expel; as, to turn a family out
of doors; to turn a man out of office.
I'll turn you out of my kingdom. Shak.
(b) to put to pasture, as cattle or horses. (c) To produce, as the
result of labor, or any process of manufacture; to furnish in a
completed state. (d) To reverse, as a pocket, bag, etc., so as to
bring the inside to the outside; hence, to produce. (e) To cause to
cease, or to put out, by turning a stopcock, valve, or the like; as,
to turn out the lights.
 -- To turn over. (a) To change or reverse the position of; to
overset; to overturn; to cause to roll over. (b) To transfer; as, to
turn over business to another hand. (c) To read or examine, as a
book, while, turning the leaves. "We turned o'er many books
together." Shak. (d) To handle in business; to do business to the
amount of; as, he turns over millions a year. [Colloq.] -- To turn
over a new leaf. See under Leaf.
 -- To turn tail, to run away; to retreat ignominiously.
 -- To turn the back, to flee; to retreat.
 -- To turn the back on or upon, to treat with contempt; to reject or
refuse unceremoniously.
 -- To turn the corner, to pass the critical stage; to get by the
worst point; hence, to begin to improve, or to succeed.
 -- To turn the die or dice, to change fortune.
 -- To turn the edge or point of, to bend over the edge or point of
so as to make dull; to blunt.
 -- To turn the head or brain of, to make giddy, wild, insane, or the
like; to infatuate; to overthrow the reason or judgment of; as, a
little success turned his head.
 -- To turn the scale or balance, to change the preponderance; to
decide or determine something doubtful.
 -- To turn the stomach of, to nauseate; to sicken.
 -- To turn the tables, to reverse the chances or conditions of
success or superiority; to give the advantage to the person or side
previously at a disadvantage.
 -- To turn tippet, to make a change. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
 -- To turn to profit, advantage, etc., to make profitable or
advantageous.
 -- To turn up. (a) To turn so as to bring the bottom side on top;
as, to turn up the trump. (b) To bring from beneath to the surface,
as in plowing, digging, etc. (c) To give an upward curve to; to tilt;
as, to turn up the nose.
 -- To turn upon, to retort; to throw back; as, to turn the arguments
of an opponent upon himself.
 -- To turn upside down, to confuse by putting things awry; to throw
into disorder.
This house is turned upside down since Robin Ostler died. Shak.

TURN
Turn, v. i.

1. To move round; to have a circular motion; to revolve entirely,
repeatedly, or partially; to change position, so as to face
differently; to whirl or wheel round; as, a wheel turns on its axis;
a spindle turns on a pivot; a man turns on his heel.
The gate . . . on golden hinges turning. Milton.

2. Hence, to revolve as if upon a point of support; to hinge; to
depend; as, the decision turns on a single fact.
Conditions of peace certainly turn upon events of war. Swift.

3. To result or terminate; to come about; to eventuate; to issue.
If we repent seriously, submit contentedly, and serve him faithfully,
afflictions shall turn to our advantage. Wake.

4. To be deflected; to take a different direction or tendency; to be
directed otherwise; to be differently applied; to be transferred; as,
to turn from the road.
Turn from thy fierce wrath. Ex. xxxii. 12.
Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. Ezek. xxxiii. 11.
The understanding turns inward on itself, and reflects on its own
operations. Locke.

5. To be changed, altered, or transformed; to become transmuted;
also, to become by a change or changes; to grow; as, wood turns to
stone; water turns to ice; one color turns to another; to turn
Mohammedan.
I hope you have no intent to turn husband. Shak.
Cygnets from gray turn white. Bacon.

6. To undergo the process of turning on a lathe; as, ivory turns
well.

7. Specifically: --
(a) To become acid; to sour; -- said of milk, ale, etc.
(b) To become giddy; -- said of the head or brain.
I'll look no more; Lest my brain turn. Shak.

(c) To be nauseated; -- said of the stomach.
(d) To become inclined in the other direction; -- said of scales.
(e) To change from ebb to flow, or from flow to ebb; -- said of the
tide.
(f) (Obstetrics) To bring down the feet of a child in the womb, in
order to facilitate delivery.

8. (Print.)

Defn: To invert a type of the same thickness, as temporary substitute
for any sort which is exhausted. To turn about, to face to another
quarter; to turn around.
 -- To turn again, to come back after going; to return. Shak.
 -- To turn against, to become unfriendly or hostile to.
 -- To turn aside or away. (a) To turn from the direct course; to
withdraw from a company; to deviate. (b) To depart; to remove. (c) To
avert one's face.
 -- To turn back, to turn so as to go in an opposite direction; to
retrace one's steps.
 -- To turn in. (a) To bend inward. (b) To enter for lodgings or
entertainment. (c) To go to bed. [Colloq.] -- To turn into, to enter
by making a turn; as, to turn into a side street.
 -- To turn off, to be diverted; to deviate from a course; as, the
road turns off to the left.
 -- To turn on or upon. (a) To turn against; to confront in hostility
or anger. (b) To reply to or retort. (c) To depend on; as, the result
turns on one condition.
 -- To turn out. (a) To move from its place, as a bone. (b) To bend
or point outward; as, his toes turn out. (c) To rise from bed.
[Colloq.] (d) To come abroad; to appear; as, not many turned out to
the fire. (e) To prove in the result; to issue; to result; as, the
cropsturned out poorly.
 -- To turn over, to turn from side to side; to roll; to tumble.
 -- To turn round. (a) To change position so as to face in another
direction. (b) To change one's opinion; to change from one view or
party to another.
 -- To turn to, to apply one's self to; have recourse to; to refer
to. "Helvicus's tables may be turned to on all occasions." Locke.
 -- To turn to account, profit, advantage, or the like, to be made
profitable or advantageous; to become worth the while.
 -- To turn under, to bend, or be folded, downward or under.
 -- To turn up. (a) To bend, or be doubled, upward. (b) To appear; to
come to light; to transpire; to occur; to happen.

TURN
Turn, n.

1. The act of turning; movement or motion about, or as if about, a
center or axis; revolution; as, the turn of a wheel.

2. Change of direction, course, or tendency; different order,
position, or aspect of affairs; alteration; vicissitude; as, the turn
of the tide.
At length his complaint took a favorable turn. Macaulay.
The turns and varieties of all passions. Hooker.
Too well the turns of mortal chance I know. Pope.

3. One of the successive portions of a course, or of a series of
occurrences, reckoning from change to change; hence, a winding; a
bend; a meander.
And all its [the river's] thousand turns disclose. Some fresher
beauty varying round. Byron.

4. A circuitous walk, or a walk to and fro, ending where it began; a
short walk; a stroll.
Come, you and I must walk a turn together. Shak.
I will take a turn in your garden. Dryden.

5. Successive course; opportunity enjoyed by alternation with another
or with others, or in due order; due chance; alternate or incidental
occasion; appropriate time. "Nobleness and bounty . . . had their
turns in his [the king's] nature."
His turn will come to laugh at you again. Denham
.
Every one has a fair turn to be as great as he pleases. Collier.

6. Incidental or opportune deed or office; occasional act of kindness
or malice; as, to do one an ill turn.
Had I not done a friendes turn to thee Chaucer.
thanks are half lost when good turns are delayed. Fairfax.

7. Convenience; occasion; purpose; exigence; as, this will not serve
his turn.
I have enough to serve mine own turn. Shak.

8. Form; cast; shape; manner; fashion; -- used in a literal or
figurative sense; hence, form of expression; mode of signifying; as,
the turn of thought; a man of a sprightly turn in conversation.
The turn of both his expressions and thoughts is unharmonious.
Dryden.
The Roman poets, in their description of a beautiful man, often
mention the turn of his neck and arms. Addison.

9. A change of condition; especially, a sudden or recurring symptom
of illness, as a nervous shock, or fainting spell; as, a bad turn.
[Colloq.]

10. A fall off the ladder at the gallows; a hanging; -- so called
from the practice of causing the criminal to stand on a ladder which
was turned over, so throwing him off, when the signal was given.
[Obs.]

11. A round of a rope or cord in order to secure it, as about a pin
or a cleat.

12. (Mining)

Defn: A pit sunk in some part of a drift.

13. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A court of record, held by the sheriff twice a year in every
hundred within his county. Blount.

14. pl. (Med.)

Defn: Monthly courses; menses. [Colloq.]

15. (Mus.)

Defn: An embellishment or grace (marked thus, By turns. (a) One after
another; alternately; in succession. (b) At intervals. "[They] feel
by turns the bitter change." Milton.
 -- In turn, in due order of succession.
 -- To a turn, exactly; perfectly; as, done to a turn; -- a phrase
alluding to the practice of cooking on a revolving spit.
 -- To take turns, to alternate; to succeed one another in due order.
 -- Turn and turn about, by equal alternating periods of service or
duty; by turns.
 -- Turn bench, a simple portable lathe, used on a bench by clock
makers and watchmakers.
 -- Turn buckle. See Turnbuckle, in Vocabulary.
 -- Turn cap, a sort of chimney cap which turns round with the wind
so as to present its opening to the leeward. G. Francis.
 -- Turn of life (Med.), change of life. See under Change.
 -- Turn screw, a screw driver.

TURNBROACH
Turn"broach`, n.

Defn: A turnspit. [Obs.] " One that was her turnbroach." Beau. & Fl.

TURN-BUCKLE
Turn"-buc`kle, n. (Mech.)
(a) A loop or sleeve with a screw thread at one end and a swivel at
the other, -- used for tightening a rod, stay, etc.
(b) A gravitating catch, as for fastening a shutter, the end of a
chain, or a hasp.

TURNBULL'S BLUE
Turn"bull's blue`. (Chem.)

Defn: The double cyanide of ferrous and ferric iron, a dark blue
amorphous substance having a coppery luster, used in dyeing, calico
printing, etc. Cf. Prussian blue, under Prussian.

TURNCOAT
Turn"coat`, n.

Defn: One who forsakes his party or his principles; a renegade; an
apostate.
He is a turncoat, he was not true to his profession. Bunyan.

TURNDOWN
Turn"down`, a.

1. Capable of being turned down; specif. (Elec.), designating, or
pertaining to, an incandescent lamp with a small additional filament
which can be made incandescent when only a small amount of light is
required.

2.  Made to wear with the upper part turned down; as, a turndown
collar.

TURNEP
Tur"nep, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Turnip. [Obs.]

TURNER
Turn"er, n.

1. One who turns; especially, one whose occupation is to form
articles with a lathe.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of pigeon; a tumbler.

TURNER
Tur"ner, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: A person who practices athletic or gymnastic exercises.

TURNERITE
Tur"ner*ite, n. Etym: [So called from the English chemist and
mineralogist, C. H. Turner.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of monazite.

TURNERY
Turn"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tournerie.]

1. The art of fashioning solid bodies into cylindrical or other forms
by means of a lathe.

2. Things or forms made by a turner, or in the lathe.
Chairs of wood, the seats triangular, the backs, arms, and legs
loaded with turnery. Walpole.

TURNEY
Tur"ney, n. & v.

Defn: Tourney. [Obs.] Chaucer. "In open turney." Spenser. Milton.

TURNHALLE
Turn"hal`le, n. Etym: [G., from turnen to exercise gymnastics + halle
hall.]

Defn: A building used as a school of gymnastics.

TURNICIMORPHAE
Tur`ni*ci*mor"phæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Turnix, and -morphous.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including Turnix and allied genera,
resembling quails in appearance but differing from them anatomically.

TURNING
Turn"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, turns; also, a winding; a
bending course; a fiexure; a meander.
Through paths and turnings often trod by day. Milton.

2. The place of a turn; an angle or corner, as of a road.
It is preached at every turning. Coleridge.

3. Deviation from the way or proper course. Harmar.

4. Turnery, or the shaping of solid substances into various by means
of a lathe and cutting tools.

5. pl.

Defn: The pieces, or chips, detached in the process of turning from
the material turned.

6. (Mil.)

Defn: A maneuver by which an enemy or a position is turned. Turning
and boring mill, a kind of lathe having a vertical spindle and
horizontal face plate, for turning and boring large work.
 -- Turning bridge. See the Note under Drawbridge.
 -- Turning engine, an engine lathe.
 -- Turning lathe, a lathe used by turners to shape their work.
 -- Turning pair. See the Note under Pair, n.
 -- Turning point, the point upon which a question turns, and which
decides a case.

TURNINGNESS
Turn"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of turning; instability; tergiversation. [Obs.] Sir
P. Sidney.

TURNIP
Tur"nip, n. Etym: [OE. turnep; probably fr. turn, or F. tour a turn,
turning lathe + OE. nepe a turnip, AS. næpe, L. napus. Cf. Turn,v.
t., Navew.] (Bot.)

Defn: The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a
cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var. Napus); also, the plant
itself. [Formerly written also turnep.] Swedish turnip (Bot.), a kind
of turnip. See Ruta-baga.
 -- Turnip flea (Zoöl.), a small flea-beetle (Haltica, or
Phyllotreta, striolata), which feeds upon the turnip, and often
seriously injures it. It is black with a stripe of yellow on each
elytron. The name is also applied to several other small insects
which are injurious to turnips. See Illust. under Flea-beetle.
 -- Turnip fly. (Zoöl.) (a) The turnip flea. (b) A two-winged fly
(Anthomyia radicum) whose larvæ live in the turnip root.

TURNIP-SHELL
Tur"nip-shell", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several large, thick, spiral marine shells belonging
to Rapa and allied genera, somewhat turnip-shaped.

TURNIX
Tur"nix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. coturnix a quail.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or
Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidæ. These birds
resemble quails and partridges in general appearance and in some of
their habits, but differ in important anatomical characteristics. The
hind toe is usually lacking. They are found in Asia, Africa, Southern
Europe, the East Indian Islands, and esp. in Australia and adjacent
islands, where they are called quails (see Quail, n., 3.). See
Turnicimorphæ.

TURNKEY
Turn"key`, n.; pl. Turnkeys (.

1. A person who has charge of the keys of a prison, for opening and
fastening the doors; a warder.

2. (Dentistry)

Defn: An instrument with a hinged claw, -- used for extracting teeth
with a twist.

TURN-OUT
Turn"-out`, n.; pl. Turn-outs (.

1. The act of coming forth; a leaving of houses, shops, etc.; esp., a
quitting of employment for the purpose of forcing increase of wages;
a strike; -- opposed to lockout.

2. A short side track on a railroad, which may be occupied by one
train while another is passing on a main track; a shunt; a siding; a
switch.

3. That which is prominently brought forward or exhibited; hence, an
equipage; as, a man with a showy carriage and horses is said to have
a fine turn-out.

4. The aggregate number of persons who have come out, as from their
houses, for a special purpose.

5. Net quantity of produce yielded.

TURNOVER
Turn"o`ver, n.

1. The act or result of turning over; an upset; as, a bad turnover in
a carriage.

2. A semicircular pie or tart made by turning one half of a circular
crust over the other, inclosing the fruit or other materials.

3. An apprentice, in any trade, who is handed over from one master to
another to complete his time.

TURNOVER
Turn"o`ver, a.

Defn: Admitting of being turned over; made to be turned over; as, a
turnover collar, etc.

TURNPIKE
Turn"pike`, n. Etym: [Turn + pike.]

1. A frame consisting of two bars crossing each other at right angles
and turning on a post or pin, to hinder the passage of beasts, but
admitting a person to pass between the arms; a turnstile. See
Turnstile, 1.
I move upon my axle like a turnpike. B. Jonson.

2. A gate or bar set across a road to stop carriages, animals, and
sometimes people, till toll is paid for keeping the road in repair; a
tollgate.

3. A turnpike road. De Foe.

4. A winding stairway. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

5. (Mil.)

Defn: A beam filled with spikes to obstruct passage; a cheval-de-
frise. [R.] Turnpike man, a man who collects tolls at a turnpike.
 -- Turnpike road, a road on which turnpikes, or tollgates, are
established by law, in order to collect from the users tolls to
defray the cost of building, repairing, etc.

TURNPIKE
Turn"pike`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Turnpiked; p. pr. & vb. n.
Turnpiking.]

Defn: To form, as a road, in the manner of a turnpike road; into a
rounded form, as the path of a road. Knowles.

TURNPLATE
Turn"plate`, n.

Defn: A turntable.

TURN-SICK
Turn"-sick`, a.

Defn: Giddy. [Obs.] Bacon.

TURN-SICK
Turn"-sick`, n. (For.)

Defn: A disease with which sheep are sometimes affected; gid; sturdy.
See Gid.

TURNSOLE
Turn"sole`, n. Etym: [F. tournesol, It. tornasole; tornare to turn
(LL. tornare) + sole the sun, L. sol. See Turn, Solar, a., and cf.
Heliotrope.] [Written also turnsol.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A plant of the genus Heliotropium; heliotrope; -- so named
because its flowers are supposed to turn toward the sun.
(b) The sunflower.
(c) A kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia).
(d) The euphorbiaceous plant Chrozophora tinctoria.

2. (Chem.)
(a) Litmus. [Obs.]
(b) A purple dye obtained from the plant turnsole. See def. 1 (d).

TURNSPIT
Turn"spit`, n.

1. One who turns a spit; hence, a person engaged in some menial
office.
His lordship is his majesty's turnspit. Burke.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small breed of dogs having a long body and short crooked
legs. These dogs were formerly much used for turning a spit on which
meat was roasting.

TURNSTILE
Turn"stile`, n.

1. A revolving frame in a footpath, preventing the passage of horses
or cattle, but admitting that of persons; a turnpike. See Turnpike,
n., 1.

2. A similar arrangement for registering the number of persons
passing through a gateway, doorway, or the like.

TURNSTONE
Turn"stone`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of limicoline birds of the genera Strepsilas and
Arenaria, allied to the plovers, especially the common American and
European species (Strepsilas interpres). They are so called from
their habit of turning up small stones in search of mollusks and
other aquatic animals. Called also brant bird, sand runner, sea
quail, sea lark, sparkback, and skirlcrake. Black turnstone, the
California turnstone (Arenaria melanocephala). The adult in summer is
mostly black, except some white streaks on the chest and forehead,
and two white loral spots.

TURNTABLE
Turn"ta`ble, n.

Defn: A large revolving platform, for turning railroad cars,
locomotives, etc., in a different direction; -- called also
turnplate.

TURNUS
Tur"nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Turnus, the king of the Rutuli,
mentioned in the Æneid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now
regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, or Jasoniades, glaucus. The
wings are yellow, margined and barred with black, and with an orange-
red spot near the posterior angle of the hind wings. Called also
tiger swallowtail. See Illust. under Swallowtail.

TURNVEREIN
Turn"ve*rein`, n. Etym: [G., from turnen to exercise + verein a
union.]

Defn: A company or association of gymnasts and athletes.

TURNWREST
Turn"wrest`, n.
(a) Designating a cumbersome style of plow used in England, esp. in
Kent.
(b) designating a kind of hillside plow. [Eng.] Knight.

TURONIAN
Tu*ro"ni*an, n. (Geol.)

Defn: One of the subdivisions into which the Upper Cretaceous
formation of Europe is divided.

TURPENTINE
Tur"pen*tine, n. Etym: [F. térébentine, OF. also turbentine; cf. Pr.
terebentina, terbentina, It. terebentina, trementina; fr. L.
terebinthinus of the turpentine tree, from terebinthus the turpentine
tree. Gr. Terebinth.]

Defn: A semifluid or fluid oleoresin, primarily the exudation of the
terebinth, or turpentine, tree (Pistacia Terebinthus), a native of
the Mediterranean region. It is also obtained from many coniferous
trees, especially species of pine, larch, and fir.

Note: There are many varieties of turpentine. Chian turpentine is
produced in small quantities by the turpentine tree (Pistacia
Terebinthus). Venice, Swiss, or larch turpentine, is obtained from
Larix Europæa. It is a clear, colorless balsam, having a tendency to
solidify. Canada turpentine, or Canada balsam, is the purest of all
the pine turpentines (see under Balsam). The Carpathian and Hungarian
varieties are derived from Pinus Cembra and Pinus Mugho. Carolina
turpentine, the most abundant kind, comes from the long-leaved pine
(Pinus palustris). Strasburg turpentine is from the silver fir (Abies
pectinata). Oil of turpentine (Chem.), a colorless oily hydrocarbon,
C10H16, of a pleasant aromatic odor, obtained by the distillation of
crude turpentine. It is used in making varnishes, in medicine, etc.
It is the type of the terpenes and is related to cymene. Called also
terebenthene, terpene, etc.
 -- Turpentine moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small
tortricid moths whose larvæ eat the tender shoots of pine and fir
trees, causing an exudation of pitch or resin.
 -- Turpentine tree (Bot.), the terebinth tree, the original source
of turpentine. See Turpentine, above.

TURPENTINE STATE
Tur"pen*tine State.

Defn: North Carolina; -- a nickname alluding to its extensive
production of turpentine.

TURPETH
Tur"peth, n. Etym: [NL. turpethum, fr. Per. tirbid a cathartic,
turbad a purgative root. Cf. Turbith.] [Written also turbeth, and
turbith.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The root of Ipomoea Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and
Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes
called vegetable turpeth.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A heavy yellow powder, Hg3O2SO4, which consists of a basic
mercuric sulphate; -- called also turpeth mineral.

TURPIN
Tur"pin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A land tortoise. [Obs.]

TURPITUDE
Tur"pi*tude, n. Etym: [L. turpitudo, from turpis foul, base.]

Defn: Inherent baseness or vileness of principle, words, or actions;
shameful wickedness; depravity. Shak.

TURQUOISE; TURQUOIS
Tur*quoise", Tur*quois", n. Etym: [F. turquoise; cf. Pr. & Sp.
turquesa, It. turchese, turchina, LL. turchesius, turchina; -- so
called because first brought from Turkey. See 1st Turkey.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper;
calaite. It has a blue, or bluish green, color, and usually occurs in
reniform masses with a botryoidal surface. [Formerly written also
turcois, and turkois.]

Note: Turquoise is susceptible of a high polish, and when of a bright
blue color is much esteemed as a gem. The finest specimens come from
Persia. It is also found in New Mexico and Arizona, and is regarded
as identical with the chalchihuitl of the Mexicans.

TURQUOISE
Tur*quoise", a.

Defn: Having a fine light blue color, like that of choice mineral
turquoise.

TURREL
Tur"rel, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. touroul a little wooden instrument to
fasten doors or windows.]

Defn: A certain tool used by coopers. Sherwood.

TURRET
Tur"ret, n. Etym: [OE. touret, OF. tourette, dim. of tour a tower, L.
turris. See Tower.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one
of the angles of a larger structure.

2. (Anc. Mil.)

Defn: A movable building, of a square form, consisting of ten or even
twenty stories and sometimes one hundred and twenty cubits high,
usually moved on wheels, and employed in approaching a fortified
place, for carrying soldiers, engines, ladders, casting bridges, and
other necessaries.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A revolving tower constructed of thick iron plates, within
which cannon are mounted. Turrets are used on vessels of war and on
land.

4. (Railroads)

Defn: The elevated central portion of the roof of a passenger car.
Its sides are pierced for light and ventilation. Turret clock, a
large clock adapted for an elevated position, as in the tower of a
church.
 -- Turret head (Mach.), a vertical cylindrical revolving tool holder
for bringing different tools into action successively in a machine,
as in a lathe.
 -- Turret lathe, a turning lathe having a turret head.
 -- Turret ship, an ironclad war vessel, with low sides, on which
heavy guns are mounted within one or more iron turrets, which may be
rotated, so that the guns may be made to bear in any required
direction.

TURRET DECK
Tur"ret deck.

Defn: A narrow superstructure running from stem to stern on the upper
deck of a steam cargo vessel having a rounded gunwale and sides
curved inward convexly.

TURRETED
Tur"ret*ed, a.

1. Furnished with a turret or turrets; specifically (Zoöl.), having
the whorls somewhat flattened on the upper side and often ornamented
by spines or tubercles; -- said of certain spiral shells.

2. Formed like a tower; as, a turreted lamp. Bacon.

TURRET STEAMER
Tur"ret steam`er.

Defn: A whaleback steamer with a hatch coaming, usually about seven
feet high, extending almost continuously fore and aft.

TURRIBANT
Tur"ri*bant, n. Etym: [See Turban.]

Defn: A turban. [Obs.]
With hundred turrets like a turribant. Spenser.

TURRICAL
Tur"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a turret, or tower; resembling a tower.

TURRICULATE; TURRICULATED
Tur*ric"u*late, Tur*ric"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. turricula small tower,
turret.]

Defn: Furnished with, or formed like, a small turret or turrets;
somewhat turreted.

TURRILITE
Tur"ri*lite, n. Etym: [L. turris tower + Gr. turrilite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: Any fossil ammonite of the genus Turrilites. The shell forms an
open spiral with the later whorls separate.

TURRITELLA
Tur`ri*tel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim fr. L. turris tower.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any spiral marine gastropod belonging to Turritella and allied
genera. These mollusks have an elongated, turreted shell, composed of
many whorls. They have a rounded aperture, and a horny multispiral
operculum.

TURRITELLOID
Tur`ri*tel"loid, a. Etym: [Turritella + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the turritellas.

TURTLE
Tur"tle, n. Etym: [AS. turtle, L. turtur; probably of imitative
origin. Cf. Turtle the sea tortoise.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The turtledove.

TURTLE
Tur"tle, n. Etym: [Probably the same word as the word preceding, and
substituted (probably by sailors) for the Spanish or Portuguese name;
cf. Sp. tortuga tortoise, turtle, Pg. tartaruga, also F. tortue, and
E. tortoise.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of the numerous species of Testudinata, especially a
sea turtle, or chelonian.

Note: In the United States the land and fresh-water tortoises are
also called turtles.

2. (Printing)

Defn: The curved plate in which the form is held in a type-revolving
cylinder press. Alligator turtle, Box turtle, etc. See under
Alligator, Box, etc.
 -- green turtle (Zoöl.), a marine turtle of the genus Chelonia,
having usually a smooth greenish or olive-colored shell. It is highly
valued for the delicacy of its flesh, which is used especially for
turtle soup. Two distinct species or varieties are known; one of
which (Chelonia Midas) inhabits the warm part of the Atlantic Ocean,
and sometimes weighs eight hundred pounds or more; the other (C.
virgata) inhabits the Pacific Ocean. Both species are similar in
habits and feed principally on seaweed and other marine plants,
especially the turtle grass.
 -- Turtle cowrie (Zoöl.), a large, handsome cowrie (Cypræa
testudinaria); the turtle-shell; so called because of its fancied
resemblance to a tortoise in color and form.
 -- Turtle grass (Bot.), a marine plant (Thalassia testudinum) with
grasslike leaves, common about the West Indies.
 -- Turtle shell, tortoise shell. See under Tortoise.

TURTLEBACK
Tur"tle*back`, n.

1. (Archæol.) A rude stone celt of a form suggesting the back of a
turtle.

2.  (Naut.) A convex deck at the bow or stern of a vessel, so made to
shed the seas quickly.

TURTLEDOVE
Tur"tle*dove`, n. Etym: [See 1ts Turtle.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of pigeons belonging to Turtur and
allied genera, native of various parts of the Old World; especially,
the common European species (Turtur vulgaris), which is noted for its
plaintive note, affectionate disposition, and devotion to its mate.

Note: The South African turtledove (T. albiventris), and the ashy
turtledove of India (T. rubicolus), are similar to the European
species in their habits.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of pigeons more or less resembling
the true turtledoves, as the American mourning dove (see under Dove),
and the Australian turtledove (Stictopelia cuneata).

Note: The turtledove of the Scriptures is probably Turtur risorius, a
species which is still plentiful in Egypt and other Eastern
countries. It is closely allied to the European turtledove.

TURTLE-FOOTED
Tur"tle-foot`ed, a.

Defn: Slow-footed. [R.] "Turtle-footed Peace." Ford.

TURTLEHEAD
Tur"tle*head`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An American perennial herb (Chelone glabra) having white
flowers shaped like the head of a turtle. Called also snakehead,
shell flower, and balmony.

TURTLE PEG
Tur"tle peg.

Defn: A sharp steel spear attached to a cord, used in taking sea
turtles. -- Turtle pegging.

TURTLER
Tur"tler, n.

Defn: One who catches turtles or tortoises. "The Jamaica turtlers."
Dampier.

TURTLE-SHELL
Tur"tle-shell`, n.

Defn: The turtle cowrie.

TURTLING
Tur"tling, n.

Defn: The act, practice, or art of catching turtles. Marryat.

TURVES
Turves, obs.

Defn: pl. of Turf.

TUSCAN
Tus"can, a. Etym: [L. Tyscanus, Tuscus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically
designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and
described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or
characteristic of the order. The original of this order was not used
by the Greeks, but by the Romans under the Empire. See Order, and
Illust. of Capital.

TUSCAN
Tus"can, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Tuscany.

TUSCARORAS
Tus`ca*ro"ras, n. pl.; sing. Tuscarora (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Indians formerly living on the Neuse
and Tar rivers in North Carolina. They were conquered in 1713, after
which the remnant of the tribe joined the Five Nations, thus forming
the Six Nations. See Six Nations, under Six.

TUSCHE; TUSHE; TOUSCHE
Tusch"e, n. Also Tushe, Tousche, etc.[G. tusche, fr. F. toucher to
touch.]

Defn: A lithographic drawing or painting material of the same nature
as lithographic ink. It is also used as a resistant in the biting-in
process.

TUSCOR
Tus"cor, n. Etym: [See Tusk.]

Defn: A tush of a horse.

TUSH
Tush, interj.

Defn: An exclamation indicating check, rebuke, or contempt; as, tush,
tush! do not speak of it.
Tush, say they, how should God perceive it Bk. of Com. Prayer (Ps.
lxxiii. 11).

TUSH
Tush, n. Etym: [OE. tusch, AS. tusc; akin to OFries. tusk, tusch, and
probably to AS. toedh tooth. See Tooth, and cf. Tusk.]

Defn: A long, pointed tooth; a tusk; -- applied especially to certain
teeth of horses.

TUSK
Tusk, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Torsk.

TUSK
Tusk, n. Etym: [OE. tusk, the same word as tusch, AS. tusc. See Tush
a tooth.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the elongated incisor or canine teeth of the wild boar,
elephant, etc.; hence, any long, protruding tooth.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A toothshell, or Dentalium; -- called also tusk-shell.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: A projecting member like a tenon, and serving the same or a
similar purpose, but composed of several steps, or offsets. Thus, in
the illustration, a is the tusk, and each of the several parts, or
offsets, is called a tooth.

TUSK
Tusk, v. i.

Defn: To bare or gnash the teeth. [Obs.]

TUSKED
Tusked, a.

Defn: Furnished with tusks.
The tusked boar out of the wood. Milton.

TUSKER
Tusk"er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An elephant having large tusks.

TUSK-SHELL
Tusk"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See 2d Tusk, n., 2.

TUSKY
Tusk"y, a.

Defn: Having tusks. "The scar indented by the tusky oar." Dryden.

TUSSAC GRASS
Tus"sac grass`.

Defn: Tussock grass.

TUSSAH; TUSSEH
Tus"sah Tus"seh (tus"sa), n. [Also tussa, tussar, tusser, tussur,
etc.] [Prob. fr. Hind. tasar a shuttle, Skr. tasara, trasara.]

Defn: An undomesticated East Indian silkworn (Antheræa mylitta), that
feeds on the leaves of the oak and other plants.

TUSSAH SILK
Tus"sah silk`. Etym: [Probably fr. Hind. tasar a shuttle, Skr.
tasara, trasara.]
(a) A silk cloth made from the cocoons of a caterpillar other than
the common silkworm, much used in Bengal and China.
(b) The silk fiber itself. [Written also tusseh silk.]

TUSSAL
Tus"sal, a. [L. tussis cough.] (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or manifested by, cough.

TUSSICULAR
Tus*sic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. tussicularis, fr. tussicula, dim. of
tussis a cough.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cough. Dunglison.

TUSSIS
Tus"sis, n. [L.] (Med.)

Defn: A cough.

TUSSIVE
Tus"sive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to a cough; caused by coughing.

TUSSLE
Tus"sle, v. i. & t. Etym: [See Tousle.]

Defn: To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with.
[Colloq.]

TUSSLE
Tus"sle, n.

Defn: A struggle; a scuffle. [Colloq.]

TUSSOCK
Tus"sock, n. Etym: [From Tuz.] [Written also tussuck.]

1. A tuft, as of grass, twigs, hair, or the like; especially, a dense
tuft or bunch of grass or sedge.
Such laying of the hair in tussocks and tufts. Latimer.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Tussock grass, below.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A caterpillar of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths.
The body of these caterpillars is covered with hairs which form long
tufts or brushes. Some species are very injurious to shade and fruit
trees. Called also tussock caterpillar. See Orgyia. Tussock grass.
(Bot.) (a) A tall, strong grass of the genus Dactylis (D. cæspitosa),
valuable for fodder, introduced into Scotland from the Falkland
Islands. (b) A tufted grass (Aira cæspitosa). (c) Any kind of sedge
(Carex) which forms dense tufts in a wet meadow or boggy place.
 -- Tussock moth (Zoöl.), the imago of any tussock caterpillar. They
belong to Orgyia, Halecidota, and allied genera.

TUSSOCKY
Tus"sock*y, a.

Defn: Having the form of tussocks; full of, or covered with,
tussocks, or tufts.

TUSSUCK
Tus"suck, n.

Defn: See Tussock. Grew.

TUT
Tut.

Defn: Be still; hush; -- an exclamation used for checking or
rebuking.

TUT
Tut, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. tut a point, pipe, tube, Dan. tut a cornet.]

1. An imperial ensign consisting of a golden globe with a cross on
it.

2. A hassock. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

TUTELAGE
Tu"te*lage, n. Etym: [L. tutela protection, fr. tutus safe, fr. tueri
to watch, defend. Cf. Tuition.]

1. The act of guarding or protecting; guardianship; protection; as,
the king's right of seigniory and tutelage.
The childhood of the European nations was passed under the tutelage
of the clergy. Macaulay.

2. The state of being under a guardian; care or protection enjoyed.
V. Knox.

TUTELAR; TUTELARY
Tu"te*lar, Tu"te*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. tutelaris: cf. F. tutélaire. See
Tutelage.]

Defn: Having the guardianship or charge of protecting a person or a
thing; guardian; protecting; as, tutelary goddesses.
This, of all advantages, is the greatest . . . the most tutelary of
morals. Landor.

TUTELE
Tu"tele, n. Etym: [L. tutela: cf. F. tutelle. See Tutelage.]

Defn: Tutelage. [Obs.] Howell.

TUTENAG
Tu"te*nag, n. Etym: [F. toutenague; cf. Pg. tutenaga, tutanaga. See
Tutty.] (Metal.)
(a) Crude zinc. [India]
(b) Packfong. [Written also tutenague.]

TUT-MOUTHED
Tut"-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Having a projecting under jaw; prognathous. [Obs.] Holland.

TUT-NOSE
Tut"-nose`, n.

Defn: A snub nose. [Prov. Eng.]

TUTOR
Tu"tor, n. Etym: [OE. tutour, L. tutor, fr. tueri to watch, defend:
cf. F. tuteur. Cf. Tuition.]

Defn: One who guards, protects, watches over, or has the care of,
some person or thing. Specifically: --
(a) A treasurer; a keeper. "Tutour of your treasure." Piers Plowman.
(b) (Civ. Law) One who has the charge of a child or pupil and his
estate; a guardian.
(c) A private or public teacher.
(d) (Eng. Universities) An officer or member of some hall, who
instructs students, and is responsible for their discipline.
(e) (Am. Colleges) An instructor of a lower rank than a professor.

TUTOR
Tu"tor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tutored; p. pr. & vb. n. Tutoring.]

1. To have the guardianship or care of; to teach; to instruct.
Their sons are well tutored by you. Shak.

2. To play the tutor toward; to treat with authority or severity.
Addison.

TUTORAGE
Tu"tor*age (; 48), n.

Defn: The office or occupation of a tutor; tutorship; guardianship.

TUTORESS
Tu"tor*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who performs the duties of a tutor; an instructress. E.
Moore.

TUTORIAL
Tu*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. tutorius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tutor; belonging to, or exercised by, a
tutor.

TUTORISM
Tu"tor*ism, n.

Defn: Tutorship. [R.]

TUTORIZE
Tu"tor*ize, v. t.

Defn: To teach; to instruct.
I . . . shall tutorize him some day. J. H. Newman.

TUTORSHIP
Tu"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office, duty, or care of a tutor; guardianship; tutelage.
Hooker.

TUTORY
Tu"tor*y, n.

Defn: Tutorage. [Obs.] Holinshed.

TUTRESS
Tu"tress, n.

Defn: Tutoress. [Obs.] Selden.

TUTRIX
Tu"trix, n. Etym: [L. See Tutor.]

Defn: A female guardian; a tutoress. [R.] Smollett.

TUTSAN
Tut"san, n. Etym: [F. toutesaine; tout, toule, all (L. totus) + sain,
saine, sound, healthy, L. sanus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Hypericum (H. Androsoemum), from which a
healing ointment is prepared in Spain; -- called also parkleaves.

TUTTI
Tut"ti, n. pl. Etym: [It., fr. L. totus, pl. toti, all.] (Mus.)

Defn: All; -- a direction for all the singers or players to perform
together. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

TUTTI-FRUTTI
Tut"ti-frut`ti, n. [It., lit., all fruits.]

Defn: A confection of different kinds of preserved fruits. -- a.

Defn: Flavored with, or containing, various fruits.

TUTTY
Tut"ty, n. Etym: [F. tutie; cf. Sp. tutia, atutia, LL. tutia; all
from Per. tutiya.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow or brown amorphous substance obtained as a sublimation
product in the flues of smelting furnaces of zinc, and consisting of
a crude zinc oxide.

TUT-WORK
Tut"-work`, n. (Mining)

Defn: Work done by the piece, as in nonmetaliferous rock, the amount
done being usually reckoned by the fathom. Tomlinson.

TUT-WORKMAN
Tut"-work`man, n.; pl. Tut-workmen (. (Mining)

Defn: One who does tut-work. Tomlinson.

TUUM
Tu"um, n. [L.]

Defn: Lit., thine; that which is thine; -- used in meum and tuum. See
2d Meum.

TU-WHIT; TU-WHOO
Tu-whit", Tu-whoo", n. & interj.

Defn: Words imitative of the notes of the owl.
Thy tu-whits are lulled, I wot, Thy tu-whoos of yesternight.
Tennyson.

TUXEDO COAT; TUXEDO
Tux*e"do coat`, or Tux*e"do, n.

Defn: A kind of black coat for evening dress made without skirts; --
so named after a fashionable country club at Tuxedo Park, New York.
[U. S.]

TUYERE
Tu`yère", n. Etym: [F.; akin to tuyau a pipe; of Teutonic origin. Cf.
Tweer, Tewel.]

Defn: A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast is
delivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of a
forge. [Corruptly written also tweer, and twier.] Tuyère arch, the
embrasure, in the wall of a blast furnace through which the tuyère
enters.

TUZ
Tuz, n. Etym: [Cf. W. tusw a wisp, a bunch, tus that binds or wraps,
tusiaw to bind round, to wrap. Cf. Tussock.]

Defn: A lock or tuft of hair. [Obs.] Dryden.

TUZA
Tu"za, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tucan.

TWADDELL; TWADDELL'S HYDROMETER
Twad"dell, n., Twad"dell's hy*drom"e*ter. [After one Twaddell, its
inventor.]

Defn: A form of hydrometer for liquids heavier than water, graduated
with an arbitrary scale such that the readings when multiplied by
.005 and added to unity give the specific gravity.

TWADDLE
Twad"dle, v. i. & t. Etym: [See Twattle.]

Defn: To talk a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are
decayed; to prate; to prattle. Stanyhurst.

TWADDLE
Twad"dle, n.

Defn: Silly talk; gabble; fustian.
I have put in this chapter on fighting . . . because of the cant and
twaddle that's talked of boxing and fighting with fists now-a-days.
T. Hughes.

TWADDLER
Twad"dler, n.

Defn: One who prates in a weak and silly manner, like one whose
faculties are decayed.

TWADDLING
Twad"dling,

Defn: a. & n. from Twaddle, v.

TWADDY
Twad"dy, n.

Defn: Idle trifling; twaddle.

TWAGGER
Twag"ger, n.

Defn: A lamb. [Prov. Eng.]

TWAIN
Twain, a. & n. Etym: [OE. twein, tweien, tweyne, AS. twegen, masc.
See Two.]

Defn: Two;- nearly obsolete in common discourse, but used in poetry
and burlesque. "Children twain." Chaucer.
And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain.
Matt. v. 41.
In twain, in halves; into two parts; asunder.
When old winder split the rocks in twain. Dryden.
-- Twain cloud. (Meteor.) Same as Cumulo-stratus.

TWAITE
Twaite, n. Etym: [Prov. E.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European shad; -- called also twaite shad. See Shad.

TWAITE
Twaite, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A piece of cleared ground. See Thwaite.

TWANG
Twang, n.

Defn: A tang. See Tang a state. [R.]

TWANG
Twang, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Twanged; p. pr. & vb. n. Twanging.] Etym:
[Of imitative origin; cf. Tang a sharp sound, Tinkle.]

Defn: To sound with a quick, harsh noise; to make the sound of a
tense string pulled and suddenly let go; as, the bowstring twanged.

TWANG
Twang, v. t.

Defn: To make to sound, as by pulling a tense string and letting it
go suddenly.
Sounds the tough horn, and twangs the quivering string. Pope.

TWANG
Twang, n.

1. A harsh, quick sound, like that made by a stretched string when
pulled and suddenly let go; as, the twang of a bowstring.

2. An affected modulation of the voice; a kind of nasal sound.
He has such a twang in his discourse. Arbuthnot.

TWANGLE
Twan"gle, v. i. & t.

Defn: To twang.
While the twangling violin Struck up with Soldier-laddie. Tennyson.

TWANK
Twank, v. t.

Defn: To cause to make a sharp twanging sound; to twang, or twangle.
Addison.

TWANKAY
Twan"kay, n.

Defn: See Note under Tea, n., 1.

'T WAS
'T was.

Defn: A contraction of it was.

TWATTLE
Twat"tle, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Tattle, Twaddle.]

Defn: To prate; to talk much and idly; to gabble; to chatter; to
twaddle; as, a twattling gossip. L'Estrange.

TWATTLE
Twat"tle, v. t.

Defn: To make much of, as a domestic animal; to pet. [Prov. Eng.]
Grose.

TWATTLE
Twat"tle, n.

Defn: Act of prating; idle talk; twaddle.

TWATTLER
Twat"tler, n.

Defn: One who twattles; a twaddler.

TWAY
Tway, a. & n. Etym: [OE. twei. See Twain.]

Defn: Two; twain. [Obs.] Spenser.

TWAYBLADE
Tway"blade`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several orchidaceous plants which have only two
leaves, as the species of Listera and of Liparis. [Written also
twyblade.]

TWEAG
Tweag, v. t.

Defn: To tweak. [Obs.]

TWEAG; TWEAGUE
Tweag, Tweague, n.

Defn: A pinching condition; perplexity; trouble; distress. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.]
This put the old fellow in a rare tweague. Arbuthnot.

TWEAK
Tweak, v. t. Etym: [OE. twikken, originally the same word as
twicchen; cf. LG. twikken. See Twitch.]

Defn: To pinch and pull with a sudden jerk and twist; to twitch; as,
to tweak the nose. Shak.

TWEAK
Tweak, n.

1. A sharp pinch or jerk; a twist or twitch; as, a tweak of the nose.
Swift.

2. Trouble; distress; tweag. [Obs.]

3. A prostitute. [Obs.] Brathwait.

TWEED
Tweed, n. Etym: [Probably a corruption of twills. See Twill.]

Defn: A soft and flexible fabric for men's wear, made wholly of wool
except in some inferior kinds, the wool being dyed, usually in two
colors, before weaving.

TWEEDLE
Twee"dle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Twiddle.] [Written also twidle.]

1. To handle lightly; -- said with reference to awkward fiddling;
hence, to influence as if by fiddling; to coax; to allure.
A fiddler brought in with him a body of lusty young fellows, whom he
had tweedled into the service. Addison.

2. To twist. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

TWEEDLEDUM AND TWEEDLEDEE
Twee"dle*dum` and Twee"dle*dee`.

Defn: Two things practically alike; -- a phrase coined by John Byrom
(1692-1793) in his satire "On the Feuds between Handel and
Bononcini."

TWEEL
Tweel, n. & v.

Defn: See Twill.

TWEER
Tweer, n.

Defn: Same as Tuyère.

TWEESE; TWEEZE
Tweese, Tweeze, n. Etym: [OE. tweeze, tweese, fr. F. étuis, pl. of
étui a case, sheath, box; probably of Teutonic origin; cf. MNG.
stuche a wide sleeve in which articles could be carried, OHG. stuhha,
G. stauche a short and narrow muff. Cf Etui, Tweezers.]

Defn: A surgeon's case of instruments. Howell.

TWEEZERS
Twee"zers, n. pl. Etym: [See Tweese.]

Defn: Small pinchers used to pluck out hairs, and for other purposes.

TWELFTH
Twelfth, a. Etym: [For twelft, OE. twelfte, AS. twelfta. See Twelve.]

1. Next in order after the eleventh; coming after eleven others; --
the ordinal of twelve.

2. Consisting, or being one of, twelve equal parts into which
anything is divided.

TWELFTH
Twelfth, n.

1. The quotient of a unit divided by twelve; one of twelve equal
parts of one whole.

2. The next in order after the eleventh.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: An interval comprising an octave and a fifth.

TWELFTH-CAKE
Twelfth" -- cake`, n.

Defn: An ornamented cake distributed among friends or visitors on the
festival of Twelfth-night.

TWELFTH-DAY
Twelfth"-day`, n.

Defn: See Twelfthtide.

TWELFTH-NIGHT
Twelfth"-night`, n.

Defn: The evening of Epiphany, or the twelfth day after Christmas,
observed as a festival by various churches.

TWELFTH-SECOND
Twelfth"-sec`ond, n. (Physics)

Defn: A unit for the measurement of small intervals of time, such
that 1012 (ten trillion) of these units make one second.

TWELFTHTIDE
Twelfth"tide`, n.

Defn: The twelfth day after Christmas; Epiphany; -- called also
Twelfth-day.

TWELVE
Twelve, a. Etym: [OE. twelve, twelf, AS. twelf; akin to OFries.
twelf, twelef, twilif, OS. twelif, D. twaalf, G. zwölf, OHG. zwelif,
Icel. t, Sw. tolf, Dan. tolv, Goth. twalif, from the root of E. two +
the same element as in the second part of E. eleven. See Two, and
Eleven.]

Defn: One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen. Twelve-
men's morris. See the Note under Morris.
 -- Twelve Tables. (Rom. Antiq.) See under Table.

TWELVE
Twelve, n.

1. The number next following eleven; the sum of ten and two, or of
twice six; twelve units or objects; a dozen.

2. A symbol representing twelve units, as 12, or xii. The Twelve
(Script.), the twelve apostles. Matt. xxvi. 20.

TWELVEMO
Twelve"mo, a. & n.

Defn: See Duodecimo.

TWELVEMONTH
Twelve"month, n.

Defn: A year which consists of twelve calendar months.
I shall laugh at this a twelvemonth hence. Shak.

TWELVEPENCE
Twelve"pence, n.

Defn: A shilling sterling, being about twenty-four cents.

TWELVEPENNY
Twelve"pen*ny

Defn: , Sold for a shilling; worth or costing a shilling.

TWELVESCORE
Twelve"score`, n. & a.

Defn: Twelve times twenty; two hundred and forty.

TWENTIETH
Twen"ti*eth, a. Etym: [From Twenty; cf. AS. twentigo. See Twenty.]

1. Next in order after the nineteenth; tenth after the tenth; coming
after nineteen others; -- the ordinal of twenty.

2. Consisting, or being, one of twenty equal parts into which
anything is divided.

TWENTIETH
Twen"ti*eth, n.

1. The next in order after the nineteen; one coming after nineteen
others.

2. The quotient of a unit divided by twenty; one of twenty equal
parts of one whole.

TWENTY
Twen"ty, a. Etym: [OE. twenty, AS. tw, twentig; akin to OFris.
twintich, OS. tw, D. & LG. twintig, OHG. zweinzug, G. zwanzig, Goth.
twai tigjis; that is, two tens. See Twain, Two, and Ten.]

1. One more that nineteen; twice; as, twenty men.

2. An indefinite number more or less that twenty. Shak.
Maximilian, upon twenty respects, could not have been the man. Bacon.

TWENTY
Twen"ty, n.; pl. Twenties (.

1. The number next following nineteen; the sum of twelve and eight,
or twice ten; twenty units or objects; a score.

2. A symbol representing twenty units, as 20, or xx.

TWENTYFOLD
Twen"ty*fold`, a.

Defn: Twenty times as many.

TWENTY-FOURMO
Twen`ty-four"mo, a.

Defn: Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a twenty-fourmo form,
book, leaf, size, etc.
 -- n.

Defn: A book composed of sheets, each of which is folded into twenty-
four leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book
whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 24mo, or 24º.

TWEY
Twey, a. Etym: [See Two.]

Defn: Two. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TWEYFOLD
Twey"fold`, a.

Defn: Twofold. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TWIBIL
Twi"bil, n. Etym: [AS. twibill; twi- (in comp.) two + bill, bil, an
ax hoe, bill. See Twice, and Bill a cutting instrument.]

1. A kind of mattock, or ax; esp., a tool like a pickax, but having,
instead of the points, flat terminations, one of which is parallel to
the handle, the other perpendicular to it. [Prov. Eng.]

2. A tool for making mortises. [Obs.]

3. A reaping hook.

TWIBILLED
Twi"billed, a.

Defn: Armed or provided with a twibil or twibils.

TWICE
Twice, adv. Etym: [OE. twies (where the s is the adverbial ending;
see -wards), twie, AS. twiges, twiwa; akin to twi- (in comp.) two, G.
zwie-, OHG. zwi-, Icel. tvi-, L. bi-, Gr. dvi-, and E. two. See Two.]

1. Two times; once and again.
He twice essayed to cast his son in gold. Dryden.

2. Doubly; in twofold quantity or degree; as, twice the sum; he is
twice as fortunate as his neighbor.

Note: Twice is used in the formation of compounds, mostly self-
explaining; as, twice-horn, twice-conquered, twice-planted, twice-
told, and the like.

TWIDDLE
Twid"dle, v. t. Etym: [Probably of imitative origin. Cf. Tweedle.]

Defn: To touch lightly, or play with; to tweedle; to twirl; as, to
twiddle one's thumbs; to twiddle a watch key. [Written also twidle.]
Thackeray.

TWIDDLE
Twid"dle, v. i.

Defn: To play with anything; hence, to be busy about trifles.
Halliwell.

TWIDDLE
Twid"dle, n.

1. A slight twist with the fingers.

2. A pimple. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

TWIFALLOW
Twi"fal`low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Twifallowed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Twifallowing.] Etym: [AS. twi- (see Twice) two + fallow.]

Defn: To plow, or fallow, a second time (land that has been once
fallowed).

TWIFOLD
Twi"fold`, a. Etym: [AS. twifeadld. See Twice, and cf. Twofold.]

Defn: Twofold; double. [Obs.]

TWIG
Twig, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Twigged; p. pr. & vb. n. Twigging.] Etym:
[Cf. Tweak.]

Defn: To twitch; to pull; to tweak. [Obs. or Scot.]

TWIG
Twig, v. t. Etym: [Gael. tuig, or Ir. tuigim I understand.]

1. To understand the meaning of; to comprehend; as, do you twig me
[Colloq.] Marryat.

2. To observe slyly; also, to perceive; to discover. "Now twig him;
now mind him." Foote.
As if he were looking right into your eyes and twigged something
there which you had half a mind to conceal. Hawthorne.

TWIG
Twig, n. Etym: [AS. twig; akin to D. twijg, OHG. zwig, zwi, G. zweig,
and probably to E. two.]

Defn: A small shoot or branch of a tree or other plant, of no
definite length or size.
The Britons had boats made of willow twigs, covered on the outside
with hides. Sir T. Raleigh.
Twig borer (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small beetles which
bore into twigs of shrubs and trees, as the apple-tree twig borer
(Amphicerus bicaudatus).
 -- Twig girdler. (Zoöl.) See Girdler, 3.
 -- Twig rush (Bot.), any rushlike plant of the genus Cladium having
hard, and sometimes prickly-edged, leaves or stalks. See Saw grass,
under Saw.

TWIG
Twig, v. t.

Defn: To beat with twigs.

TWIGGEN
Twig"gen, a.

Defn: Made of twigs; wicker. [Obs.]

TWIGGER
Twig"ger, n.

Defn: A fornicator. [Eng.] Halliwell.

TWIGGY
Twig"gy, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a twig or twigs; like a twig or twigs; full
of twigs; abounding with shoots. " Twiggy trees." Evelyn.

TWIGHT
Twight, v. t.

Defn: To twit. [Obs.] Spenser.

TWIGHT
Twight, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Twitch. Chaucer.

TWIGHTE
Twight"e, obs.

Defn: imp. of Twitch. Chaucer.

TWIGLESS
Twig"less, a.

Defn: Having no twigs.

TWIGSOME
Twig"some, a.

Defn: Full of, or abounding in, twigs; twiggy. [R.] " Twigsome
trees." Dickens.

TWILIGHT
Twi"light`, n. Etym: [OE. twilight, AS. twi- (see Twice) + leóht
light; hence the sense of doubtful or half light; cf. LG. twelecht,
G. zwielicht. See Light.]

1. The light perceived before the rising, and after the setting, of
the sun, or when the sun is less than 18º below the horizon,
occasioned by the illumination of the earth's atmosphere by the
direct rays of the sun and their reflection on the earth.

2. faint light; a dubious or uncertain medium through which anything
is viewed.
As when the sun . . . from behind the moon, In dim eclipse.
disastrous twilight sheds. Milton.
The twilight of probability. Locke.

TWILIGHT
Twi"light`, a.

1. Seen or done by twilight. Milton.

2. Imperfectly illuminated; shaded; obscure.
O'er the twilight groves and dusky caves. Pope.

TWILL
Twill, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Twilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Twilling.] Etym:
[Scotch tweel; probably from LG. twillen to make double, from twi-
two; akin to AS. twi-, E. twi- in twilight. See Twice, and cf. Tweed,
Tweel.]

Defn: To weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal
lines or ribs on the surface.

TWILL
Twill, n. Etym: [Scotch tweel. See Twill, v. t.]

1. An appearance of diagonal lines or ribs produced in textile
fabrics by causing the weft threads to pass over one and under two,
or over one and under three or more, warp threads, instead of over
one and under the next in regular succession, as in plain weaving.

2. A fabric women with a twill.

3. Etym: [Perhaps fr. guill.]

Defn: A quill, or spool, for yarn.

TWILLY
Twil"ly, n. Etym: [C. Willy.]

Defn: A machine for cleansing or loosening wool by the action of a
revolving cylinder covered with long iron spikes or teeth; a willy or
willying machine; -- called also twilly devil, and devil. See Devil,
n., 6, and Willy. Tomlinson.

TWILT
Twilt, n. Etym: [See Quilt.]

Defn: A quilt. [Prov. Eng.]

TWIN
Twin, a. Etym: [OE. twin double, AS. getwinne two and two, pl.,
twins; akin to D. tweeling a twin, G. zwilling, OHG. zwiniling, Icel.
tvennr, tvinnr, two and two, twin, and to AS. twi- two. See Twice,
Two.]

1. Being one of two born at a birth; as, a twin brother or sister.

2. Being one of a pair much resembling one another; standing the
relation of a twin to something else; -- often followed by to or
with. Shak.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Double; consisting of two similar and corresponding parts.

4. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Composed of parts united according to some definite law of
twinning. See Twin, n., 4. Twin boat, or Twin ship (Naut.), a vessel
whose deck and upper works rest on two parallel hulls.
 -- Twin crystal. See Twin, n., 4.
 -- Twin flower (Bot.), a delicate evergreen plant (Linnæa borealis)
of northern climates, which has pretty, fragrant, pendulous flowers
borne in pairs on a slender stalk.
 -- Twin-screw steamer, a steam vessel propelled by two screws, one
on either side of the plane of the keel.

TWIN
Twin, n.

1. One of two produced at a birth, especially by an animal that
ordinarily brings forth but one at a birth; -- used chiefly in the
plural, and applied to the young of beasts as well as to human young.

2. pl. (Astron.)

Defn: A sign and constellation of the zodiac; Gemini. See Gemini.

3. A person or thing that closely resembles another.

4. (Crystallog.)

Defn: A compound crystal composed of two or more crystals, or parts
of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other.

Note: The relative position of the parts of a twin may be explained
by supposing one part to be revolved 180º about a certain axis
(called the twinning axis), this axis being normal to a plane (called
the twinning plane) which is usually one of the fundamental planes of
the crystal. This revolution brings the two parts into parallel
position, or vice versa. A contact twin is one in which the parts are
united by a plane surface, called the composition face, which is
usually the same as the twinning plane. A penetration twin is one in
which the parts interpenetrate each other, often very irregularly.
Twins are also called, according to form, cruciform, geniculated,
etc.

TWIN
Twin, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Twinned; p. pr. & vb. n. Twinning.]

1. To bring forth twins. Tusser.

2. To be born at the same birth. Shak.

TWIN
Twin, v. t.

1. To cause to be twins, or like twins in any way. Shak.
Still we moved Together, twinned, as horse's ear and eye. Tennyson.

2. To separate into two parts; to part; to divide; hence, to remove;
also, to strip; to rob. [Obs.]
The life out of her body for to twin. Chaucer.

TWIN
Twin, v. i.

Defn: To depart from a place or thing. [Obs.] "Ere that we farther
twin." Chaucer.

TWINBORN
Twin"born`, a.

Defn: Born at the same birth.

TWINE
Twine, n. Etym: [AS. twin, properly, a twisted or double thread; akin
to D. twijn, Icel. twinni; from twi-. See Twice, and cf. Twin.]

1. A twist; a convolution.
Typhon huge, ending in snaky twine. Milton.

2. A strong thread composed of two or three smaller threads or
strands twisted together, and used for various purposes, as for
binding small parcels, making nets, and the like; a small cord or
string.

3. The act of twining or winding round. J. Philips. Twine reeler, a
kind of machine for twisting twine; a kind of mule, or spinning
machine.

TWINE
Twine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Twined; p. pr. & vb. n. Twining.] Etym:
[OE. twinen, fr. AS. twin a twisted thread; akin to D. twijnen to
twine, Icel. & Sw. tvinna, Dan. tvinde. See Twine, n.]

1. To twist together; to form by twisting or winding of threads; to
wreathe; as, fine twined linen.

2. To wind, as one thread around another, or as any flexible
substance around another body.
Let me twine Mine arms about that body. Shak.

3. To wind about; to embrace; to entwine.
Let wreaths of triumph now my temples twine. Pope.

4. To change the direction of. [Obs.] Fairfax.

5. To mingle; to mix. [Obs.] Crashaw.

TWINE
Twine, v. i.

1. To mutually twist together; to become mutually involved.

2. To wind; to bend; to make turns; to meander.
As rivers, though they bend and twine, Still to the sea their course
incline. Swift.

3. To turn round; to revolve. [Obs.] Chapman.

4. To ascend in spiral lines about a support; to climb spirally; as,
many plants twine.

TWINER
Twin"er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant which twines about a support.

TWINGE
Twinge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Twinged; p. pr. & vb. n. Twinging.] Etym:
[OE. twengen, AS. twengan; akin to OE. twingen to pain, afflict,
OFries. thwinga, twinga, dwinga, to constrain, D. dwingen, OS.
thwingan, G. zwingen, OHG. dwingan, thwingan, to press, oppress,
overcome, Icel. þvinga, Sw. tvinga to subdue, constrain, Dan. twinge,
and AS. þün to press, OHG. duhen, and probably to E. thong. Perhaps
influenced by twitch. Cf. Thong.]

1. To pull with a twitch; to pinch; to tweak.
When a man is past his sense, There's no way to reduce him thence,
But twinging him by the ears or nose, Or laying on of heavy blows.
Hudibras.

2. To affect with a sharp, sudden pain; to torment with pinching or
sharp pains.
The gnat . . . twinged him [the lion] till he made him tear himself,
and so mastered him. L'Estrange.

TWINGE
Twinge, v. i.

Defn: To have a sudden, sharp, local pain, like a twitch; to suffer a
keen, darting, or shooting pain; as, the side twinges.

TWINGE
Twinge, n.

1. A pinch; a tweak; a twitch.
A master that gives you . . . twinges by the ears. L' Estrange.

2. A sudden sharp pain; a darting local pain of momentary
continuance; as, a twinge in the arm or side. " A twinge for my own
sin." Dryden.

TWINING
Twin"ing, a.

Defn: Winding around something; twisting; embracing; climbing by
winding about a support; as, the hop is a twinning plant.

TWINING
Twin"ing, a.

Defn: The act of one who, or that which, twines; (Bot.) the act of
climbing spirally.

TWINK
Twink, v. i. Etym: [OE. twinken. See Twinkle.]

Defn: To twinkle. [Obs.]

TWINK
Twink, n.

1. A wink; a twinkling. [Obs.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.]

TWINKLE
Twin"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Twinkled; p. pr. & vb. n. Twinkling.]
Etym: [OE. twinklen, AS. twinclian; akin to OE. twinken to blink,
wink, G. zwinken, zwinkern, and perhaps to E. twitch.]

1. To open and shut the eye rapidly; to blink; to wink.
The owl fell a moping and twinkling. L' Estrange.

2. To shine with an intermitted or a broken, quavering light; to
flash at intervals; to sparkle; to scintillate.
These stars not twinkle when viewed through telescopes that have
large apertures. Sir I. Newton.
The western sky twinkled with stars. Sir W. Scott.

TWINKLE
Twin"kle, n.

1. A closing or opening, or a quick motion, of the eye; a wink or
sparkle of the eye.
Suddenly, with twinkle of her eye, The damsel broke his misintended
dart. Spenser.

2. A brief flash or gleam, esp. when rapidly repeated.

3. The time of a wink; a twinkling. Dryden.

TWINKLER
Twin"kler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, twinkles, or winks; a winker; an eye.

TWINKLING
Twin"kling, n.

1. The act of one who, or of that which, twinkles; a quick movement
of the eye; a wink; a twinkle. Holland.

2. A shining with intermitted light; a scintillation; a sparkling;
as, the twinkling of the stars.

3. The time of a wink; a moment; an instant.
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, . . . the
dead shall be raised incorruptible. 1 Cor. xv. 52.

TWINLEAF
Twin"leaf`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Jeffersonia.

TWINLIKE
Twin"like`, a.

Defn: Closely resembling; being a counterpart.
 -- Twin"like`ness, n.

TWINLING
Twin"ling, n. Etym: [Twin + 1st -ling.]

Defn: A young or little twin, especially a twin lamb.

TWINNED
Twinned, a. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Composed of parts united according to a law of twinning. See
Twin, n., 4.

TWINNER
Twin"ner, n.

Defn: One who gives birth to twins; a breeder of twins. Tusser.

TWINNING
Twin"ning, n. (Crystallog.)

Defn: The assemblage of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals,
in reversed position with reference to each other in accordance with
some definite law; also, rarely, in artificial twinning (accomplished
for example by pressure), the process by which this reversal is
brought about. Polysynthetic twinning, repeated twinning of crystal
lamellæ, as that of the triclinic feldspars.
 -- Repeated twinning, twinning of more than two crystals, or parts
of crystals.
 -- Twinning axis, Twinning plane. See the Note under Twin, n.

TWINTER
Twin"ter, n. Etym: [AS. twi- + winter winter. See Twice, and Winter.]

Defn: A domestic animal two winters old. [Prov. Eng.]

TWIRE
Twire, n. Etym: [Cf. D. tweern, G. zwirn, and E. twine.]

Defn: A twisted filament; a thread. [Obs.] Locke.

TWIRE
Twire, v. i. Etym: [Cf. MHG. zwieren, E. thwart, and queer.]

1. To peep; to glance obliquely; to leer. [Obs.]
Which maids will twire 'tween their fingers. B. Jonson.
I saw the wench that twired and twinkled at thee. Beau. & Fl.

2. To twinkle; to glance; to gleam. [Obs.]
When sparkling stars twire not. Shak.

TWIRE
Twire, v. i.

Defn: To sing, or twitter. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TWIRE-PIPE
Twire"-pipe`, n.

Defn: A vagabond musician. [Obs.]
You are an ass, a twire-pipe. Beau. & Fl.
You looked like Twire-pipe, the taborer. Chapman.

TWIRL
Twirl, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Twirled; p. pr. & vb. n. Twirling.] Etym:
[Cf. AS. þwiril a churn staff, a stirrer, flail, þweran, aþweran, to
agitate, twirl, G. zwirlen, quirlen, to twirl, to turn round or
about, quirl a twirling stick, OHG. dweran to twirl, stir. Cf.
Trowel.]

Defn: To move or turn round rapidly; to whirl round; to move and turn
rapidly with the fingers.
See ruddy maids, Some taught with dexterous hand to twirl the wheel.
Dodsley.
No more beneath soft eve's consenting star Fandango twirls his jocund
castanet. Byron.

TWIRL
Twirl, v. i.

Defn: To revolve with velocity; to be whirled round rapidly.

TWIRL
Twirl, n.

1. The act of twirling; a rapid circular motion; a whirl or whirling;
quick rotation.

2. A twist; a convolution. Woodward.

TWIST
Twist, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Twisted; p. pr. & vb. n. Twisting.] Etym:
[OE. twisten, AS. twist a rope, as made of two (twisted) strands, fr.
twi- two; akin to D. twist a quarrel, dissension, G. zwist, Dan. &
Sw. tvist, Icel. twistr the deuce in cards, tvistr distressed. See
Twice, Two.]

1. To contort; to writhe; to complicate; to crook spirally; to
convolve.
Twist it into a serpentine form. Pope.

2. Hence, to turn from the true form or meaning; to pervert; as, to
twist a passage cited from an author.

3. To distort, as a solid body, by turning one part relatively to
another about an axis passing through both; to subject to torsion;
as, to twist a shaft.

4. To wreathe; to wind; to encircle; to unite by intertexture of
parts. "Longing to twist bays with that ivy." Waller.
There are pillars of smoke twisted about wreaths of flame. T. Burnet.

5. To wind into; to insinuate; -- used reflexively; as, avarice
twists itself into all human concerns.

6. To unite by winding one thread, strand, or other flexible
substance, round another; to form by convolution, or winding separate
things round each other; as, to twist yarn or thread. Shak.

7. Hence, to form as if by winding one part around another; to
wreathe; to make up.
Was it not to this end That thou began'st to twist so fine a story
Shak.

8. To form into a thread from many fine filaments; as, to twist wool
or cotton.

TWIST
Twist, v. i.

1. To be contorted; to writhe; to be distorted by torsion; to be
united by winding round each other; to be or become twisted; as, some
strands will twist more easily than others.

2. To follow a helical or spiral course; to be in the form of a
helix.

TWIST
Twist, n.

1. The act of twisting; a contortion; a flexure; a convolution; a
bending.
Not the least turn or twist in the fibers of any one animal which
does not render them more proper for that particular animal's way of
life than any other cast or texture. Addison.

2. The form given in twisting.
[He] shrunk at first sight of it; he found fault with the length, the
thickness, and the twist. Arbuthnot.

3. That which is formed by twisting, convoluting, or uniting parts.
Specifically: --
(a) A cord, thread, or anything flexible, formed by winding strands
or separate things round each other.
(b) A kind of closely twisted, strong sewing silk, used by tailors,
saddlers, and the like.
(c) A kind of cotton yarn, of several varieties.
(d) A roll of twisted dough, baked.
(e) A little twisted roll of tobacco.
(f) (Weaving) One of the threads of a warp, -- usually more tightly
twisted than the filling. (g) (Firearms)

Defn: A material for gun barrels, consisting of iron and steel
twisted and welded together; as, Damascus twist.
(h) (Firearms & Ord.) The spiral course of the rifling of a gun
barrel or a cannon.
(i) A beverage made of brandy and gin. [Slang]

4. Etym: [OE.; -- so called as being a two-forked branch. See Twist,
v. t.]

Defn: A twig. [Obs.] Chaucer. Fairfax. Gain twist, or Gaining twist
(Firearms), twist of which the pitch is less, and the inclination
greater, at the muzzle than at the breech.
 -- Twist drill, a drill the body of which is twisted like that of an
auger. See Illust. of Drill.
 -- Uniform twist (Firearms), a twist of which the spiral course has
an equal pitch throughout.

TWISTE
Twist"e, obs.

Defn: imp. of Twist. Chaucer.

TWISTED
Twist"ed, a.

Defn: Contorted; crooked spirally; subjected to torsion; hence,
perverted. Twisted curve (Geom.), a curve of double curvature. See
Plane curve, under Curve.
 -- Twisted surface (Geom.), a surface described by a straight line
moving according to any law whatever, yet so that the consecutive
positions of the line shall not be in one plane; a warped surface.

TWISTER
Twist"er, n.

1. One who twists; specifically, the person whose occupation is to
twist or join the threads of one warp to those of another, in
weaving.

2. The instrument used in twisting, or making twists.
He, twirling his twister, makes a twist of the twine. Wallis.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: A girder. Craig.

4. (Man.)

Defn: The inner part of the thigh, the proper place to rest upon when
on horseback. Craig.

TWISTICAL
Twist"ic*al, a.

Defn: Crooked; tortuous; hence, perverse; unfair; dishonest. [Slang,
U. S.] Bartlett.

TWISTING
Twist"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Twist. Twisting pair. (Kinematics) See under Pair,
n., 7.

TWIT
Twit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Twitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Twitting.] Etym:
[OE. atwiten, AS. ætwitan to reproach, blame; æt at + witan to
reproach, blame; originally, to observe, see, hence, to observe what
is wrong (cf. the meanings of E. animadvert; akin to G. verweisen to
censure, OHG. firwizan, Goth. traweitan to avenge, L. videre to see.
See Vision, Wit.]

Defn: To vex by bringing to notice, or reminding of, a fault, defect,
misfortune, or the like; to revile; to reproach; to upbraid; to
taunt; as, he twitted his friend of falsehood.
This these scoffers twitted the Christian with. Tillotson.
Æsop minds men of their errors, without twitting them for what is
amiss. L'Estrange.

TWITCH
Twitch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Twitched; p. pr. & vb. n. Twitching.]
Etym: [OE. twicchen, fr. (doubtful) AS. twiccian; akin to AS.
angeltwicca a worm used for bait, literally, a hook twitcher, LG.
twikken to tweak, G. zwicken. Cf. Tweak.]

Defn: To pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick
motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing
out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes.
Thrice they twitched the diamond in her ear. Pope.