

WASH
Wash, a.

1

Defn: Washy; weak. [Obs.]
Their bodies of so weak and wash a temper. Beau. & Fl.

2. Capable of being washed without injury; washable; as, wash goods.
[Colloq.]

WASHABLE
Wash"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being washed without damage to fabric or color.

WASHBOARD
Wash"board`, n.

1. A fluted, or ribbed, board on which clothes are rubbed in washing
them.

2. A board running round, and serving as a facing for, the walls of a
room, next to the floor; a mopboard.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A broad, thin plank, fixed along the gunwale of boat to keep
the sea from breaking inboard; also, a plank on the sill of a lower
deck port, for the same purpose; -- called also wasteboard. Mar. Di

WASHBOWL
Wash"bowl`, n.

Defn: A basin, or bowl, to hold water for washing one's hands, face,
etc.

WASHDISH
Wash"dish`, n.

1. A washbowl.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Washerwoman, 2. [Prov. Eng.]

WASH DRAWING
Wash drawing. (Art)

Defn: In water-color painting, work in, or a work done chiefly in,
washes, as distinguished from that done in stipple, in body color,
etc.

WASHED
Washed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color;
-- said of the colors of certain birds and insects.

WASHED SALE
Washed sale.

Defn: Same as Wash sale.

WASHEN
Wash"en, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Wash. Chaucer.

WASHER
Wash"er, n. Etym: [AS. wæscere.]

1. One who, or that which, washes.

2. A ring of metal, leather, or other material, or a perforated
plate, used for various purposes, as around a bolt or screw to form a
seat for the head or nut, or around a wagon axle to prevent endwise
motion of the hub of the wheel and relieve friction, or in a joint to
form a packing, etc.

3. (Plumbing)

Defn: A fitting, usually having a plug, applied to a cistern, tub,
sink, or the like, and forming the outlet opening.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common raccoon.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Washerwoman, 2. [Prov. Eng.]

WASHERMAN
Wash"er*man, n.; pl. Washermen (.

Defn: A man who washes clothes, esp. for hire, or for others.

WASHERWOMAN
Wash"er*wom`an, n.; pl. Washerwomen (.

1. A woman who washes clothes, especially for hire, or for others.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pied wagtail; -- so called in allusion to its beating the
water with its tail while tripping along the leaves of water plants.
[Prov. Eng.]

WASHHOUSE
Wash"house`, n.

Defn: An outbuilding for washing, esp. one for washing clothes; a
laundry.

WASHINESS
Wash"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being washy, watery, or weak.

WASHING
Wash"ing, n.

1. The act of one who washes; the act of cleansing with water;
ablution.

2. The clothes washed, esp. at one time; a wash. Washing bear
(Zoöl.), the raccoon.
 -- Washing bottle (Chem.), a bottle fitted with glass tubes passing
through the cork, so that on blowing into one of the tubes a stream
of water issuing from the other may be directed upon anything to be
washed or rinsed, as a precipitate upon a filter, etc.
 -- Washing fluid, a liquid used as a cleanser, and consisting
usually of alkaline salts resembling soaps in their action.
 -- Washing machine, a machine for washing; specifically, a machine
for washing clothes.
 -- Washing soda. (Chem.) See Sodium carbonate, under Sodium.
 -- Washing stuff, any earthy deposit containing gold enough to pay
for washing it; -- so called among gold miners.

WASHINGTONIAN
Wash`ing*to"ni*an, a.

1. Pertaining to, or characteristic of, George Washington; as, a
Washingtonian policy. Lowell.

2. Designating, or pertaining to, a temperance society and movement
started in Baltimore in 1840 on the principle of total abstinence.
 -- n.

Defn: A member of the Washingtonian Society.

WASHOE PROCESS
Wash"oe proc`ess. [From the Washoe district, Nevada.]

Defn: The process of treating silver ores by grinding in pans or tubs
with the addition of mercury, and sometimes of chemicals such as blue
vitriol and salt.

WASH-OFF
Wash"-off`, a. (Calico Printing)

Defn: Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said
of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise.

WASHOUT
Wash"out`, n.

Defn: The washing out or away of earth, etc., especially of a portion
of the bed of a road or railroad by a fall of rain or a freshet;
also, a place, especially in the bed of a road or railroad, where the
earth has been washed away.

WASHPOT
Wash"pot`, n.

1. A pot or vessel in which anything is washed.

2. (Tin-Plate Manuf.)

Defn: A pot containing melted tin into which the plates are dipped to
be coated.

WASH SALE
Wash sale. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: A sale made in washing. See Washing, n., 3, above.

WASHSTAND
Wash"stand`, n.

Defn: A piece of furniture holding the ewer or pitcher, basin, and
other requisites for washing the person.

WASH STAND
Wash stand.

Defn: In a stable or garage, a place in the floor prepared so that
carriages or automobiles may be washed there and the water run off.
[Cant]

WASHTUB
Wash"tub`, n.

Defn: A tub in which clothes are washed.

WASHY
Wash"y, a. Etym: [From Wash.]

1. Watery; damp; soft. "Washy ooze." Milton.

2. Lacking substance or strength; weak; thin; dilute; feeble; as,
washy tea; washy resolutions.
A polish . . . not over thin and washy. Sir H. Wotton.

3. Not firm or hardy; liable to sweat profusely with labor; as, a
washy horse. [Local, U. S.]

WASITE
Wa"site, n. Etym: [See Wasium.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium.

WASIUM
Wa"si*um, n. Etym: [NL. So called from Wasa, or Vasa, the name of a
former royal family of Sweden.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from
wasite, but now identified with thorium.

WASP
Wasp, n. Etym: [OE. waspe, AS. wæps, wæfs; akin to D. wesp, G. wespe,
OHG. wafsa, wefsa, Lith. vapsa gadfly, Russ. osa wasp, L. vespa, and
perhaps to E. weave.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects,
esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes
the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets.

Note: The social wasps make a complex series of combs, of a substance
like stiff paper, often of large size, and protect them by a
paperlike covering. The larvæ are reared in the cells of the combs,
and eat insects and insect larvæ brought to them by the adults, but
the latter feed mainly on the honey and pollen of flowers, and on the
sweet juices of fruit. See Illust. in Appendix. Digger wasp, any one
of numerous species of solitary wasps that make their nests in
burrows which they dig in the ground, as the sand wasps. See Sand
wasp, under Sand.
 -- Mud wasp. See under Mud.
 -- Potter wasp. See under Potter.
 -- Wasp fly, a species of fly resembling a wasp, but without a
sting.

WASPISH
Wasp"ish, a.

1. Resembling a wasp in form; having a slender waist, like a wasp.

2. Quick to resent a trifling affront; characterized by snappishness;
irritable; irascible; petulant; snappish.
He was naturally a waspish and hot man. Bp. Hall.
Much do I suffer, much, to keep in peace This jealous, waspish,
wrong-head, rhyming race. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Snappish; petulant; irritable; irascible; testy; peevish;
captious.
 -- Wasp"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Wasp"ish*ness, n.

WASSAIL
Was"sail, n. Etym: [AS. wes hal (or an equivalent form in another
dialect) be in health, which was the form of drinking a health. The
form wes is imperative. See Was, and Whole.]

1. An ancient expression of good wishes on a festive occasion,
especially in drinking to some one.
Geoffrey of Monmouth relates, on the authority of Walter Calenius,
that this lady [Rowena], the daughter of Hengist, knelt down on the
approach of the king, and, presenting him with a cup of wine,
exclaimed, Lord king wæs heil, that is, literally, Health be to you.
N. Drake.

2. An occasion on which such good wishes are expressed in drinking; a
drinking bout; a carouse. "In merry wassail he . . . peals his loud
song." Sir W. Scott.
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse, Keeps wassail. Shak.
The victors abandoned themselves to feasting and wassail. Prescott.

3. The liquor used for a wassail; esp., a beverage formerly much used
in England at Christmas and other festivals, made of ale (or wine)
flavored with spices, sugar, toast, roasted apples, etc.; -- called
also lamb's wool.
A jolly wassail bowl, A wassail of good ale. Old Song.

4. A festive or drinking song or glee. [Obs.]
Have you done your wassail! 'T is a handsome, drowsy ditty, I'll
assure you. Beau. & Fl.

WASSAIL
Was"sail, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to wassail, or to a wassail; convivial; as, a
wassail bowl. "Awassail candle, my lord, all tallow." Shak. Wassail
bowl, a bowl in which wassail was mixed, and placed upon the table.
"Spiced wassail bowl." J. Fletcher. "When the cloth was removed, the
butler brought in a huge silver vessel . . . Its appearance was
hailed with acclamation, being the wassail bowl so renowned in
Christmas festivity." W. Irving.
 -- Wassail cup, a cup from which wassail was drunk.

WASSAIL
Was"sail, v. i.

Defn: To hold a wassail; to carouse.
Spending all the day, and good part of the night, in dancing,
caroling, and wassailing. Sir P. Sidney.

WASSAILER
Was"sail*er, n.

Defn: One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity,
especially in drinking; a reveler.
The rudeness and swilled insolence Of such late wassailers. Milton.

WAST
Wast.

Defn: The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative
mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style.
See Was.

WASTAGE
Wast"age, n.

Defn: Loss by use, decay, evaporation, leakage, or the like; waste.

WASTE
Waste, a. Etym: [OE. wast, OF. wast, from L. vastus, influenced by
the kindred German word; cf. OHG. wuosti, G. wüst, OS. w, D. woest,
AS. weste. Cf. Vast.]

1. Desolate; devastated; stripped; bare; hence, dreary; dismal;
gloomy; cheerless.
The dismal situation waste and wild. Milton.
His heart became appalled as he gazed forward into the waste darkness
of futurity. Sir W. Scott.

2. Lying unused; unproductive; worthless; valueless; refuse;
rejected; as, waste land; waste paper.
But his waste words returned to him in vain. Spenser.
Not a waste or needless sound, Till we come to holier ground. Milton.
Ill day which made this beauty waste. Emerson.

3. Lost for want of occupiers or use; superfluous.
And strangled with her waste fertility. Milton.
Waste gate, a gate by which the superfluous water of a reservoir, or
the like, is discharged.
 -- Waste paper. See under Paper.
 -- Waste pipe, a pipe for carrying off waste, or superfluous, water
or other fluids. Specifically: (a) (Steam Boilers) An escape pipe.
See under Escape. (b) (Plumbing) The outlet pipe at the bottom of a
bowl, tub, sink, or the like.
 -- Waste steam. (a) Steam which escapes the air. (b) Exhaust steam.
 -- Waste trap, a trap for a waste pipe, as of a sink.

WASTE
Waste, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Wasting.] Etym:
[OE. wasten, OF. waster, guaster, gaster, F. gâter to spoil, L.
vastare to devastate, to lay waste, fr. vastus waste, desert,
uncultivated, ravaged, vast, but influenced by a kindred German word;
cf. OHG. wuosten, G. wüsten, AS. westan. See Waste, a.]

1. To bring to ruin; to devastate; to desolate; to destroy.
Thou barren ground, whom winter's wrath hath wasted, Art made a
mirror to behold my plight. Spenser.
The Tiber Insults our walls, and wastes our fruitful grounds. Dryden.

2. To wear away by degrees; to impair gradually; to diminish by
constant loss; to use up; to consume; to spend; to wear out.
Until your carcasses be wasted in the wilderness. Num. xiv. 33.
O, were I able To waste it all myself, and leave ye none! Milton.
Here condemned To waste eternal days in woe and pain. Milton.
Wasted by such a course of life, the infirmities of age daily grew on
him. Robertson.

3. To spend unnecessarily or carelessly; to employ prodigally; to
expend without valuable result; to apply to useless purposes; to
lavish vainly; to squander; to cause to be lost; to destroy by
scattering or injury.
The younger son gathered all together, and . . . wasted his substance
with riotous living. Luke xv. 13.
Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness
on the desert air. Gray.

4. (Law)

Defn: To damage, impair, or injure, as an estate, voluntarily, or by
suffering the buildings, fences, etc., to go to decay.

Syn.
 -- To squander; dissipate; lavish; desolate.

WASTE
Waste, v. i.

1. To be diminished; to lose bulk, substance, strength, value, or the
like, gradually; to be consumed; to dwindle; to grow less.
The time wasteth night and day. Chaucer.
The barrel of meal shall not waste. 1 Kings xvii. 14.
But man dieth, and wasteth away. Job xiv. 10.

2. (Sporting)

Defn: To procure or sustain a reduction of flesh; -- said of a jockey
in preparation for a race, etc.

WASTE
Waste, n. Etym: [OE. waste; cf. the kindred AS. w, OHG. w, wuosti, G.
wüste. See Waste, a. & v.]

1. The act of wasting, or the state of being wasted; a squandering;
needless destruction; useless consumption or expenditure;
devastation; loss without equivalent gain; gradual loss or decrease,
by use, wear, or decay; as, a waste of property, time, labor, words,
etc. "Waste . . . of catel and of time." Chaucer.
For all this waste of wealth loss of blood. Milton.
He will never . . . in the way of waste, attempt us again. Shak.
Little wastes in great establishments, constantly occurring, may
defeat the energies of a mighty capital. L. Beecher.

2. That which is wasted or desolate; a devastated, uncultivated, or
wild country; a deserted region; an unoccupied or unemployed space; a
dreary void; a desert; a wilderness. "The wastes of Nature." Emerson.
All the leafy nation sinks at last, And Vulcan rides in triumph o'er
the waste. Dryden.
The gloomy waste of waters which bears his name is his tomb and his
monument. Bancroft.

3. That which is of no value; worthless remnants; refuse.
Specifically: Remnants of cops, or other refuse resulting from the
working of cotton, wool, hemp, and the like, used for wiping
machinery, absorbing oil in the axle boxes of railway cars, etc.

4. (Law)

Defn: Spoil, destruction, or injury, done to houses, woods, fences,
lands, etc., by a tenant for life or for years, to the prejudice of
the heir, or of him in reversion or remainder.

Note: Waste is voluntary, as by pulling down buildings; or
permissive, as by suffering them to fall for want of necessary
repairs. Whatever does a lasting damage to the freehold is a waste.
Blackstone.

5. (Mining)

Defn: Old or abandoned workings, whether left as vacant space or
filled with refuse.

Syn.
 -- Prodigality; diminution; loss; dissipation; destruction;
devastation; havoc; desolation; ravage.

WASTEBASKET
Waste"bas`ket, n.

Defn: A basket used in offices, libraries, etc., as a receptacle for
waste paper.

WASTEBOARD
Waste"board`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Washboard, 3.

WASTEBOOK
Waste"book`, n. (Com.)

Defn: A book in which rough entries of transactions are made,
previous to their being carried into the journal.

WASTEFUL
Waste"ful, c.

1. Full of waste; destructive to property; ruinous; as; wasteful
practices or negligence; wasteful expenses.

2. Expending, or tending to expend, property, or that which is
valuable, in a needless or useless manner; lavish; prodigal; as, a
wasteful person; a wasteful disposition.

3. Waste; desolate; unoccupied; untilled. [Obs.]
In wilderness and wasteful desert strayed. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Lavish; profuse; prodigal; extravagant.
 -- Waste"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Waste"ful*ness, n.

WASTEL
Was"tel, n. Etym: [OF. wastel, gastel, F. gâteau, LL. wastellus, fr.
MHG. wastel a kind of bread; cf. OHG. & AS. wist food.]

Defn: A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel
bread, and wastel cake. [Obs.]
Roasted flesh or milk and wasted bread. Chaucer.
The simnel bread and wastel cakes, which were only used at the tables
of the highest nobility. Sir W. Scott.

WASTENESS
Waste"ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being waste; a desolate state or
condition; desolation.
A day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness. Zeph. i. 15.

2. That which is waste; a desert; a waste. [R.]
Through woods and wasteness wide him daily sought. Spenser.

WASTER
Wast"er, n. Etym: [OE. wastour, OF. wasteor, gasteor. See Waste, v.
t.]

1. One who, or that which, wastes; one who squanders; one who
consumes or expends extravagantly; a spendthrift; a prodigal.
He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a
great waster. Prov. xviii. 9.
Sconces are great wasters of candles. Swift.

2. An imperfection in the wick of a candle, causing it to waste; --
called also a thief. Halliwell.

3. A kind of cudgel; also, a blunt-edged sword used as a foil.
Half a dozen of veneys at wasters with a good fellow for a broken
head. Beau. & Fl.
Being unable to wield the intellectual arms of reason, they are fain
to betake them unto wasters. Sir T. Browne.

WASTETHRIFT
Waste"thrift`, n.

Defn: A spendthrift. [Obs.]

WASTEWEIR
Waste"weir`, n.

Defn: An overfall, or weir, for the escape, or overflow, of
superfluous water from a canal, reservoir, pond, or the like.

WASTING
Wast"ing, a.

Defn: Causing waste; also, undergoing waste; diminishing; as, a
wasting disease; a wasting fortune. Wasting palsy (Med.), progressive
muscular atrophy. See under Progressive.

WASTOR
Wast"or, n.

Defn: A waster; a thief. [Obs. or R.] [Written also wastour.]
Chaucer. Southey.

WASTOREL
Wast"o*rel, n.

Defn: See Wastrel. [Obs.]

WASTREL
Wast"rel, n.

1. Any waste thing or substance; as:
(a) Waste land or common land. [Obs.] Carew.
(b) A profligate. [Prov. Eng.]
(c) A neglected child; a street Arab. [Eng.]

2. Anything cast away as bad or useless, as imperfect bricks, china,
etc. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

WATCH
Watch, n. Etym: [OE. wacche, AS. wæcce, fr. wacian to wake; akin to
D. wacht, waak, G. wacht, wache. Wake, v. i. ]

1. The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful,
vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation;
guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or
guarding by night.
Shepherds keeping watch by night. Milton.
All the long night their mournful watch they keep. Addison.

Note: Watch was formerly distinguished from ward, the former
signifying a watching or guarding by night, and the latter a
watching, guarding, or protecting by day Hence, they were not
unfrequently used together, especially in the phrase to keep watch
and ward, to denote continuous and uninterrupted vigilance or
protection, or both watching and guarding. This distinction is now
rarely recognized, watch being used to signify a watching or guarding
both by night and by day, and ward, which is now rarely used, having
simply the meaning of guard, or protection, without reference to
time.
Still, when she slept, he kept both watch and ward. Spenser.
Ward, guard, or custodia, is chiefly applied to the daytime, in order
to apprehend rioters, and robbers on the highway . . . Watch, is
properly applicable to the night only, . . . and it begins when ward
ends, and ends when that begins. Blackstone.

2. One who watches, or those who watch; a watchman, or a body of
watchmen; a sentry; a guard.
Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch; go your way, make it as sure
as ye can. Matt. xxvii. 65.

3. The post or office of a watchman; also, the place where a watchman
is posted, or where a guard is kept.
He upbraids Iago, that he made him Brave me upon the watch. Shak.

4. The period of the night during which a person does duty as a
sentinel, or guard; the time from the placing of a sentinel till his
relief; hence, a division of the night.
I did stand my watch upon the hill. Shak.
Might we but hear . . . Or whistle from the lodge, or village cock
Count the night watches to his feathery dames. Milton.

5. A small timepiece, or chronometer, to be carried about the person,
the machinery of which is moved by a spring.

Note: Watches are often distinguished by the kind of escapement used,
as an anchor watch, a lever watch, a chronometer watch, etc. (see the
Note under Escapement, n., 3); also, by the kind of case, as a gold
or silver watch, an open-faced watch, a hunting watch, or hunter,
etc.

6. (Naut.)
(a) An allotted portion of time, usually four hour for standing
watch, or being on deck ready for duty. Cf. Dogwatch.
(b) That part, usually one half, of the officers and crew, who
together attend to the working of a vessel for an allotted time,
usually four hours. The watches are designated as the port watch, and
the starboard watch. Anchor watch (Naut.), a detail of one or more
men who keep watch on deck when a vessel is at anchor.
 -- To be on the watch, to be looking steadily for some event.
 -- Watch and ward (Law), the charge or care of certain officers to
keep a watch by night and a guard by day in towns, cities, and other
districts, for the preservation of the public peace. Wharton.
Burrill.
 -- Watch and watch (Naut.), the regular alternation in being on
watch and off watch of the two watches into which a ship's crew is
commonly divided.
 -- Watch barrel, the brass box in a watch, containing the
mainspring.
 -- Watch bell (Naut.), a bell struck when the half-hour glass is run
out, or at the end of each half hour. Craig.
 -- Watch bill (Naut.), a list of the officers and crew of a ship as
divided into watches, with their stations. Totten.
 -- Watch case, the case, or outside covering, of a watch; also, a
case for holding a watch, or in which it is kept.
 -- Watch chain. Same as watch guard, below.
 -- Watch clock, a watchman's clock; see under Watchman.
 -- Watch fire, a fire lighted at night, as a signal, or for the use
of a watch or guard.
 -- Watch glass. (a) A concavo-convex glass for covering the face, or
dial, of a watch; -- also called watch crystal. (b) (Naut.) A half-
hour glass used to measure the time of a watch on deck.(Chem.) A
round concavo-convex glass of shallow depth used for certain
manipulations of chemicals in a laboratory.
 -- Watch guard, a chain or cord by which a watch is attached to the
person.
 -- Watch gun (Naut.), a gun sometimes fired on shipboard at 8 p. m.,
when the night watch begins.
 -- Watch light, a low-burning lamp used by watchers at night;
formerly, a candle having a rush wick.
 -- Watch night, The last night of the year; -- so called by the
Methodists, Moravians, and others, who observe it by holding
religious meetings lasting until after midnight.
 -- Watch paper, an old-fashioned ornament for the inside of a watch
case, made of paper cut in some fanciful design, as a vase with
flowers, etc.
 -- Watch tackle (Naut.), a small, handy purchase, consisting of a
tailed double block, and a single block with a hook.

WATCH
Watch, v. i. Etym: [Cf. AS. woeccan, wacian. sq. root134. See Watch,
n., Wake, v. i. ]

1. To be awake; to be or continue without sleep; to wake; to keep
vigil.
I have two nights watched with you. Shak.
Couldest thou not watch one hour Mark xiv. 37.

2. To be attentive or vigilant; to give heed; to be on the lookout;
to keep guard; to act as sentinel.
Take ye heed, watch and pray. Mark xiii. 33.
The Son gave signal high To the bright minister that watched. Milton.

3. To be expectant; to look with expectation; to wait; to seek
opportunity.
My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the
morning. Ps. cxxx. 6.

4. To remain awake with any one as nurse or attendant; to attend on
the sick during the night; as, to watch with a man in a fever.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its
place; -- said of a buoy. To watch over, to be cautiously observant
of; to inspect, superintend, and guard.

WATCH
Watch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Watched; p. pr. & vb. n. Watching.]

1. To give heed to; to observe the actions or motions of, for any
purpose; to keep in view; not to lose from sight and observation; as,
to watch the progress of a bill in the legislature.
Saul also sent messengers unto David's house to watch him, and to
slay him. 1 Sam. xix. 11
I must cool a little, and watch my opportunity. Landor.
In lazy mood I watched the little circles die. Longfellow.

2. To tend; to guard; to have in keeping.
And flaming ministers, to watch and tend Their earthy charge. Milton.
Paris watched the flocks in the groves of Ida. Broome.

WATCHDOG
Watch"dog`, n.

Defn: A dog kept to watch and guard premises or property, and to give
notice of the approach of intruders.

WATCHER
Watch"er, n.

Defn: One who watches; one who sits up or continues; a diligent
observer; specifically, one who attends upon the sick during the
night.

WATCHES
Watch"es, n. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: The leaves of Sarace. See Trumpets.

WATCHET
Watchet, a. Etym: [Probably from F. vaciet bilberry, whortleberry;
cf. L. vaccinium blueberry, whortleberry.]

Defn: Pale or light blue. [Obs.] "Watchet mantles." Spenser.
Who stares in Germany at watchet eyes Dryden.

WATCHFUL
Watch"ful, a.

Defn: Full of watch; vigilant; attentive; careful to observe closely;
observant; cautious; -- with of before the thing to be regulated or
guarded; as, to be watchful of one's behavior; and with against
before the thing to be avoided; as, to be watchful against the growth
of vicious habits. "Many a watchful night." Shak. "Happy watchful
shepherds." Milton.
'Twixt prayer and watchful love his heart dividing. Keble.

Syn.
 -- Vigilant; attentive; cautious; observant; circumspect; wakeful;
heedful.
 -- Watch"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Watch"ful*ness, n.

WATCHHOUSE
Watch"house`, n.; pl. Watchhouses (.

1. A house in which a watch or guard is placed.

2. A place where persons under temporary arrest by the police of a
city are kept; a police station; a lockup.

WATCHMAKER
Watch"mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make and repair watches.

WATCHMAN
Watch"man, n.; pl. Watchmen (.

1. One set to watch; a person who keeps guard; a guard; a sentinel.

2. Specifically, one who guards a building, or the streets of a city,
by night. Watchman beetle (Zoöl.), the European dor.
 -- Watchman's clock, a watchman's detector in which the apparatus
for recording the times of visiting several stations is contained
within a single clock.
 -- Watchman's detector, or Watchman's time detector, an apparatus
for recording the time when a watchman visits a station on his
rounds.
 -- Watchman's rattle, an instrument having at the end of a handle a
revolving arm, which, by the action of a strong spring upon cogs,
produces, when in motion, a loud, harsh, rattling sound.

WATCH MEETING
Watch meeting.

Defn: A religious meeting held in the closing hours of the year.

WATCHTOWER
Watch"tow`er, n.

Defn: A tower in which a sentinel is placed to watch for enemies, the
approach of danger, or the like.

WATCHWORD
Watch"word`, n.

1. A word given to sentinels, and to such as have occasion to visit
the guards, used as a signal by which a friend is known from an
enemy, or a person who has a right to pass the watch from one who has
not; a countersign; a password.

2. A sentiment or motto; esp., one used as a rallying cry or a signal
for action.
Nor deal in watchwords overmuch. Tennyson.

WATER
Wa"ter, n. Etym: [AS. wæter; akin to OS. watar, OFries. wetir, weter,
LG. & D. water, G. wasser, OHG. wazzar, Icel. vatn, Sw. vatten, Dan.
vand, Goth. wat, O. Slav. & Russ. voda, Gr. udan water, ud to wet,
and perhaps to L. unda wave. Dropsy, Hydra, Otter, Wet, Whisky.]

1. The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms
rivers, lakes, seas, etc. "We will drink water." Shak."Powers of
fire, air, water, and earth." Milton.

Note: Pure water consists of hydrogen and oxygen, H2O, and is a
colorless, odorless, tasteless, transparent liquid, which is very
slightly compressible. At its maximum density, 39º Fahr. or 4º C., it
is the standard for specific gravities, one cubic centimeter weighing
one gram. It freezes at 32º Fahr. or 0º C. and boils at 212º Fahr. or
100º C. (see Ice, Steam). It is the most important natural solvent,
and is frequently impregnated with foreign matter which is mostly
removed by distillation; hence, rain water is nearly pure. It is an
important ingredient in the tissue of animals and plants, the human
body containing about two thirds its weight of water.

2. A body of water, standing or flowing; a lake, river, or other
collection of water.
Remembering he had passed over a small water a poor scholar when
first coming to the university, he kneeled. Fuller.

3. Any liquid secretion, humor, or the like, resembling water; esp.,
the urine.

4. (Pharm.)

Defn: A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance;
as, ammonia water. U. S. Pharm.

5. The limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a
diamond; as, a diamond of the first water, that is, perfectly pure
and transparent. Hence, of the first water, that is, of the first
excellence.

6. A wavy, lustrous pattern or decoration such as is imparted to
linen, silk, metals, etc. See Water, v. t., 3, Damask, v. t., and
Damaskeen.

7. An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock
company so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased
while their value for investment is diminished, or "diluted."
[Brokers' Cant]

Note: Water is often used adjectively and in the formation of many
self-explaining compounds; as, water drainage; water gauge, or water-
gauge; waterfowl, water-fowl, or water fowl; water-beaten; water-
borne, water-circled, water-girdled, water-rocked, etc. Hard water.
See under Hard.
 -- Inch of water, a unit of measure of quantity of water, being the
quantity which will flow through an orifice one inch square, or a
circular orifice one inch in diameter, in a vertical surface, under a
stated constant head; also called miner's inch, and water inch. The
shape of the orifice and the head vary in different localities. In
the Western United States, for hydraulic mining, the standard
aperture is square and the head from 4 to 9 inches above its center.
In Europe, for experimental hydraulics, the orifice is usually round
and the head from -- Mineral water, waters which are so impregnated
with foreign ingredients, such as gaseous, sulphureous, and saline
substances, as to give them medicinal properties, or a particular
flavor or temperature.
 -- Soft water, water not impregnated with lime or mineral salts.
 -- To hold water. See under Hold, v. t.
 -- To keep one's head above water, to keep afloat; fig., to avoid
failure or sinking in the struggles of life. [Colloq.] -- To make
water. (a) To pass urine. Swift. (b) (Naut.) To admit water; to leak.
 -- Water of crystallization (Chem.), the water combined with many
salts in their crystalline form. This water is loosely, but,
nevertheless, chemically, combined, for it is held in fixed and
definite amount for each substance containing it. Thus, while pure
copper sulphate, CuSO4, is a white amorphous substance, blue vitriol,
the crystallized form, CuSO4.5H2O, contains five molecules of water
of crystallization.
 -- Water on the brain (Med.), hydrocephalus.
 -- Water on the chest (Med.), hydrothorax.

Note: Other phrases, in which water occurs as the first element, will
be found in alphabetical order in the Vocabulary.

WATER
Wa"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Watered; p. pr. & vb. n. Watering.] Etym:
[AS. wæterian, gewæterian.]

1. To wet or supply with water; to moisten; to overflow with water;
to irrigate; as, to water land; to water flowers.
With tears watering the ground. Milton.
Men whose lives gilded on like rivers that water the woodlands.
Longfellow.

2. To supply with water for drink; to cause or allow to drink; as, to
water cattle and horses.

3. To wet and calender, as cloth, so as to impart to it a lustrous
appearance in wavy lines; to diversify with wavelike lines; as, to
water silk. Cf. Water, n., 6.

4. To add water to (anything), thereby extending the quantity or bulk
while reducing the strength or quality; to extend; to dilute; to
weaken. To water stock, to increase the capital stock of a company by
issuing new stock, thus diminishing the value of the individual
shares. Cf. Water, n., 7. [Brokers' Cant]

WATER
Wa"ter, v. i.

1. To shed, secrete, or fill with, water or liquid matter; as, his
eyes began to water.
If thine eyes can water for his death. Shak.

2. To get or take in water; as, the ship put into port to water. The
mouth waters, a phrase denoting that a person or animal has a longing
desire for something, since the sight of food often causes one who is
hungry to have an increased flow of saliva.

WATER ADDER
Wa"ter ad"der. (Zoöl.)
(a) The water moccasin.
(b) The common, harmless American water snake (Tropidonotus sipedon).
See Illust. under Water Snake.

WATERAGE
Wa"ter*age (; 48), n.

Defn: Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water. [Eng.]

WATER AGRIMONY
Wa"ter ag"ri*mo*ny. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of bur marigold (Bidens tripartita) found in wet places
in Europe.

WATER ALOE
Wa"ter al"oe. (Bot.)

Defn: See Water soldier.

WATER ANTELOPE
Wa"ter an"te*lope.

Defn: See Water buck.

WATER ARUM
Wa"ter a"rum. (Bot.)

Defn: An aroid herb (Calla palustris) having a white spathe. It is an
inhabitant of the north temperate zone.

WATER BACK
Wa"ter back`.

Defn: See under 1st Back.

WATER BAILIFF
Wa"ter bail"iff.

Defn: An officer of the customs, whose duty it is to search vessels.
[Eng.]

WATER BALLAST
Wa"ter bal"last. (Naut.)

Defn: Water confined in specially constructed compartments in a
vessel's hold, to serve as ballast.

WATER BAROMETER
Wa"ter ba*rom"e*ter. (Physics)

Defn: A barometer in which the changes of atmospheric pressure are
indicated by the motion of a column of water instead of mercury. It
requires a column of water about thirty-three feet in height.

WATER BATH
Wa"ter bath`.

Defn: A device for regulating the temperature of anything subjected
to heat, by surrounding the vessel containing it with another vessel
containing water which can be kept at a desired temperature; also, a
vessel designed for this purpose.

WATER BATTERY
Wa"ter bat"ter*y.

1. (Elec.)

Defn: A voltaic battery in which the exciting fluid is water.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A battery nearly on a level with the water.

WATER BEAR
Wa"ter bear`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Tardigrada, 2. See Illust. of Tardigrada.

WATER-BEARER
Wa"ter-bear`er, n. (Astron.)

Defn: The constellation Aquarius.

WATER BED
Wa"ter bed`.

Defn: A kind of mattress made of, or covered with, waterproof fabric
and filled with water. It is used in hospitals for bedridden
patients.

WATER BEECH
Wa"ter beech`. (Bot.)

Defn: The American hornbeam. See Hornbeam.

WATER BEETLE
Wa"ter bee"tle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of aquatic beetles belonging to
Dytiscus and allied genera of the family Dytiscidæ, and to various
genera of the family Hydrophilidæ. These beetles swim with great
agility, the fringed hind legs acting together like oars.

WATER BELLOWS
Wa"ter bel"lows.

Defn: Same as Tromp.

WATER BIRD
Wa"ter bird`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any aquatic bird; a water fowl.

WATER BLACKBIRD
Wa"ter black"*bird. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European water ousel, or dipper.

WATERBOARD
Wa"ter*board`, n.

Defn: A board set up to windward in a boat, to keep out water. Ham.
Nav. Encyc.

WATER BOATMAN
Wa"ter boat`man. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A boat bug.

WATERBOK
Wa"ter*bok`, n. Etym: [D.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A water buck.

WATER-BOUND
Wa"ter-bound`, a.

Defn: Prevented by a flood from proceeding.

WATER BRAIN
Wa"ter brain`.

Defn: A disease of sheep; gid.

WATER BRASH
Wa"ter brash`. (Med.)

Defn: See under Brash.

WATER BREATHER
Wa"ter breath"er. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any arthropod that breathes by means of gills.

WATER BRIDGE
Wa"ter bridge`. (Steam Boilers)

Defn: See Water table.

WATER BUCK
Wa"ter buck`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, heavy antelope (Kobus ellipsiprymnus) native of
Central Africa. It frequents the banks of rivers and is a good
swimmer. It has a white ring around the rump. Called also photomok,
water antelope, and waterbok.

Note: The name is also applied to other related species, as the leche
(Kobus leche), which has similar habits.

WATER BUFFALO
Wa"ter buf"fa*lo. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European buffalo.

WATER BUG
Wa"ter bug`. (Zoöl.)
(a) The Croton bug.
(b) Any one of numerous species of large, rapacious, aquatic,
hemipterous insects belonging to Belostoma, Benacus, Zaitha, and
other genera of the family Belostomatidæ. Their hind legs are long
and fringed, and act like oars. Some of these insects are of great
size, being among the largest existing Hemiptera. Many of them come
out of the water and fly about at night.

WATER BUTT
Wa"ter butt`.

Defn: A large, open-headed cask, set up on end, to contain water.
Dickens.

WATER CALTROP
Wa"ter cal"trop. (Bot.)

Defn: The water chestnut.

WATER CAN
Wa"ter can`. (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several species of Nuphar; the yellow frog lily; --
so called from the shape of the seed vessel. See Nuphar, and cf.
Candock. Dr. Prior.

WATER CANKER
Wa"ter can"ker. (Med.)

Defn: See Canker, n., 1.

WATER CARRIAGE
Wa"ter car"riage.

1. Transportation or conveyance by water; means of transporting by
water.

2. A vessel or boat. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.

WATER CART
Wa"ter cart`.

Defn: A cart carrying water; esp., one carrying water for sale, or
for sprinkling streets, gardens, etc.

WATER CAVY
Wa"ter ca"vy. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The capybara.

WATER CELERY
Wa"ter cel"er*y. (Bot.)

Defn: A very acrid herb (Ranunculus sceleratus) growing in ditches
and wet places; -- called also cursed crowfoot.

WATER CELL
Wa"ter cell`.

Defn: A cell containing water; specifically (Zoöl.), one of the cells
or chambers in which water is stored up in the stomach of a camel.

WATER CEMENT
Wa"ter ce*ment".

Defn: Hydraulic cement.

WATER CHESTNUT
Wa"ter chest"nut. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of Trapa natans and Trapa bicornis, Old World water
plants bearing edible nutlike fruits armed with several hard and
sharp points; also, the plant itself; -- called also water caltrop.

WATER CHEVROTAIN
Wa"ter chev`ro*tain". (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large West African chevrotain (Hyæmoschus aquaticus). It has
a larger body and shorter legs than the other allied species. Called
also water deerlet.

WATER CHICKEN
Wa"ter chick"en. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common American gallinule.

WATER CHICKWEED
Wa"ter chick"weed`. (Bot.)

Defn: A small annual plant (Montia fontana) growing in wet places in
southern regions.

WATER CHINQUAPIN
Wa"ter chin"qua*pin. (Bot.)

Defn: The American lotus, and its edible seeds, which somewhat
resemble chinquapins. Cf. Yoncopin.

WATER CLOCK
Wa"ter clock`.

Defn: An instrument or machine serving to measure time by the fall,
or flow, of a certain quantity of water; a clepsydra.

WATER-CLOSET
Wa"ter-clos`et, n.

Defn: A privy; especially, a privy furnished with a contrivance for
introducing a stream of water to cleanse it.

WATER COCK
Wa"ter cock`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large gallinule (Gallicrex cristatus) native of Australia,
India, and the East Indies. In the breeding season the male is black
and has a fleshy red caruncle, or horn, on the top of its head.
Called also kora.

WATER COLOR
Wa"ter col`or. (Paint.)

1. A color ground with water and gum or other glutinous medium; a
color the vehicle of which is water; -- so called in distinction from
oil color.

Note: It preserves its consistency when dried in a solid cake, which
is used by rubbing off a portion on a moistened palette. Moist water
colors are water colors kept in a semifluid or pasty state in little
metal tubes or pans.

2. A picture painted with such colors.

WATER-COLORIST
Wa"ter-col`or*ist, n.

Defn: One who paints in water colors.

WATER COURSE
Wa"ter course`.

1. A stream of water; a river or brook. Isa. xliv. 4.

2. A natural channel for water; also, a canal for the conveyance of
water, especially in draining lands.

3. (Law)

Defn: A running stream of water having a bed and banks; the easement
one may have in the flowing of such a stream in its accustomed
course. A water course may be sometimes dry. Angell. Burrill.

WATERCOURSE
Wa"ter*course`, n. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: One of the holes in floor or other plates to permit water to
flow through.

WATER CRAFT
Wa"ter craft`.

Defn: Any vessel or boat plying on water; vessels and boats,
collectively.

WATER CRAKE
Wa"ter crake`. (Zoöl.)
(a) The dipper.
(b) The spotted crake (Porzana maruetta). See Illust. of Crake.
(c) The swamp hen, or crake, of Australia.

WATER CRANE
Wa"ter crane`.

Defn: A goose-neck apparatus for supplying water from an elevated
tank, as to the tender of a locomotive.

WATER CRESS
Wa"ter cress`. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial cruciferous herb (Nasturtium officinale) growing
usually in clear running or spring water. The leaves are pungent, and
used for salad and as an antiscorbutic.

WATER CROW
Wa"ter crow`. Etym: [So called in allusion to its dark plumage.]
(Zoöl.)
(a) The dipper.
(b) The European coot.

WATER CROWFOOT
Wa"ter crow"foot`. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic kind of buttercup (Ranunculus aquatilis), used as
food for cattle in parts of England. Great water crowfoot, an
American water plant (Ranunculus multifidus), having deep yellow
flowers.

WATER CURE
Wa"ter cure`.

1. (Med.)

Defn: Hydropathy.

2. A hydropathic institution.

WATER DECK
Wa"ter deck`.

Defn: A covering of painting canvas for the equipments of a dragoon's
horse. Wilhelm.

WATER DEER
Wa"ter deer`. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small Chinese deer (Hydropotes inermis). Both sexes are
destitute of antlers, but the male has large, descending canine
tusks.
(b) The water chevrotain.

WATER DEERLET
Wa"ter deer"let.

Defn: See Water chevrotain.

WATER DEVIL
Wa"ter dev"il. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The rapacious larva of a large water beetle (Hydrophilus
piceus), and of other similar species. See Illust. of Water beetle.

WATER DOCK
Wa"ter dock`. (Bot.)

Defn: A tall, coarse dock growing in wet places. The American water
dock is Rumex orbiculatus, the European is R. Hydrolapathum.

WATER DOCTOR
Wa"ter doc"tor. (Med.)
(a) One who professes to be able to divine diseases by inspection of
the urine.
(b) A physician who treats diseases with water; an hydropathist.

WATER DOG
Wa"ter dog`.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A dog accustomed to the water, or trained to retrieve
waterfowl. Retrievers, waters spaniels, and Newfoundland dogs are so
trained.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The menobranchus.

3. A small floating cloud, supposed to indicate rain.

4. A sailor, esp. an old sailor; an old salt. [Colloq.]

WATER DRAIN
Wa"ter drain`.

Defn: A drain or channel for draining off water.

WATER DRAINAGE
Wa"ter drain"age (; 48).

Defn: The draining off of water.

WATER DRESSING
Wa"ter dress"ing. (Med.)

Defn: The treatment of wounds or ulcers by the application of water;
also, a dressing saturated with water only, for application to a
wound or an ulcer.

WATER DROPWORT
Wa"ter drop"wort`. (Bot.)

Defn: A European poisonous umbelliferous plant (Enanthe fistulosa)
with large hollow stems and finely divided leaves.

WATER EAGLE
Wa"ter ea"gle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The osprey.

WATER ELDER
Wa"ter el"der. (Bot.)

Defn: The guelder-rose.

WATER ELEPHANT
Wa"ter el"e*phant. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hippopotamus. [R.]

WATER ENGINE
Wa"ter en"gine.

Defn: An engine to raise water; or an engine moved by water; also, an
engine or machine for extinguishing fires; a fire engine.

WATERER
Wa"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, waters.

WATERFALL
Wa"ter*fall`, n.

1. A fall, or perpendicular descent, of the water of a river or
stream, or a descent nearly perpendicular; a cascade; a cataract.

2. (Hairdressing)

Defn: An arrangement of a woman's back hair over a cushion or frame
in some resemblance to a waterfall.

3. A certain kind of neck scarf. T. Hughes.

WATER FEATHER; WATER FEATHER-FOIL
Wa"ter feath"er or Wa"ter feath"er-foil`. (Bot.)

Defn: The water violet (Hottonia palustris); also, the less showy
American plant H. inflata.

WATER FLAG
Wa"ter flag`. (Bot.)

Defn: A European species of Iris (Iris Pseudacorus) having bright
yellow flowers.

WATER FLANNEL
Wa"ter flan"nel. (Bot.)

Defn: A floating mass formed in pools by the entangled filaments of a
European fresh-water alga (Cladophora crispata).

WATER FLEA
Wa"ter flea`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small aquatic Entomostraca
belonging to the genera Cyclops, Daphnia, etc; -- so called because
they swim with sudden leaps, or starts.

WATERFLOOD
Wa"ter*flood`, n. Etym: [AS. wæterflod.]

Defn: A flood of water; an inundation.

WATER FLOUNDER
Wa"ter floun"der. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The windowpane (Pleuronectes maculatus). [Local, U. S.]

WATERFOWL
Wa"ter*fowl`, n.

Defn: Any bird that frequents the water, or lives about rivers,
lakes, etc., or on or near the sea; an aquatic fowl; -- used also
collectively.

Note: Of aquatic fowls, some are waders, or furnished with long legs;
others are swimmers, or furnished with webbed feet.

WATER FOX
Wa"ter fox`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The carp; -- so called on account of its cunning. Walton.

WATER FRAME
Wa"ter frame`.

Defn: A name given to the first power spinning machine, because
driven by water power.

WATER FURROW
Wa"ter fur"row. (Agric.)

Defn: A deep furrow for conducting water from the ground, and keeping
the surface soil dry.

WATER-FURROW
Wa"ter-fur"row, v. t.

Defn: To make water furrows in.

WATER GAGE
Wa"ter gage`.

Defn: See Water gauge.

WATER GALL
Wa"ter gall`.

1. A cavity made in the earth by a torrent of water; a washout.

2. A watery appearance in the sky, accompanying the rainbow; a
secondary or broken rainbow.
These water galls, in her dim element, Foretell new storms to those
already spent. Shak.
False good news are [is] always produced by true good, like the water
gall by the rainbow. Walpole.

WATER GANG
Wa"ter gang`. (O. E. Law)

Defn: A passage for water, such as was usually made in a sea wall, to
drain water out of marshes. Burrill.

WATER GAS
Wa"ter gas`. (Chem.)

Defn: See under Gas.

WATER GATE
Wa"ter gate`.

Defn: A gate, or valve, by which a flow of water is permitted,
prevented, or regulated.

WATER GAUGE
Wa"ter gauge`. [Written also water gage.]

1. A wall or bank to hold water back. Craig.

2. An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the depth or quantity
of water, or for indicating the height of its surface, as in the
boiler of a steam engine. See Gauge.

WATER GAVEL
Wa"ter gav"el. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A gavel or rent paid for a privilege, as of fishing, in some
river or water.

WATER GERMANDER
Wa"ter ger*man"der. (Bot.)

Defn: A labiate plant (Teucrium Scordium) found in marshy places in
Europe.

WATER GILDING
Wa"ter gild"ing.

Defn: The act, or the process, of gilding metallic surfaces by
covering them with a thin coating of amalgam of gold, and then
volatilizing the mercury by heat; -- called also wash gilding.

WATER GLASS
Wa"ter glass`. (Chem.)

Defn: See Soluble glass, under Glass.

WATER GOD
Wa"ter god`. (Myth.)

Defn: A fabulous deity supposed to dwell in, and preside over, some
body of water.

WATER GRASS
Water grass.
 (a) A tall march perennial grass (Paspalum dilatatum) of the
southern United States and the American tropics.
 (b) Manna grass.
 (c) The grass Chloris elegans.
 (d) [Dial. Eng.] (1) Velvet grass. (2)

Defn: The water cress. (3)

Defn: One of various horsetails.

WATER GRUEL
Wa"ter gru"el.

Defn: A liquid food composed of water and a small portion of meal, or
other farinaceous substance, boiled and seasoned.

WATER HAMMER
Wa"ter ham"mer. (Physics)

1. A vessel partly filled with water, exhausted of air, and
hermetically sealed. When reversed or shaken, the water being
unimpeded by air, strikes the sides in solid mass with a sound like
that of a hammer.

2. A concussion, or blow, made by water in striking, as against the
sides of a pipe or vessel containing it.

WATER HARE
Wa"ter hare. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small American hare or rabbit (Lepus aquaticus) found on or
near the southern coasts of the United States; -- called also water
rabbit, and swamp hare.

WATER HEMLOCK
Wa"ter hem"lock. (Bot)
(a) A poisonous umbelliferous plant (Cicuta virosa) of Europe; also,
any one of several plants of that genus.
(b) A poisonous plant () resembling the above.

WATER HEMP
Wa"ter hemp`. (Bot.)

Defn: See under Hemp.

WATER HEN
Wa"ter hen`.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any gallinule.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common American coot.

WATER HOG
Wa"ter hog`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The capybara.

WATER HOREHOUND
Wa"ter hore"hound`. (Bot.)

Defn: Bugleweed.

WATERHORSE
Wa"ter*horse`, n.

Defn: A pile of salted fish heaped up to drain.

WATER HYACINTH
Wa"ter hy"a*cinth. (Bot.)

Defn: Either of several tropical aquatic plants of the genus
Eichhornia, related to the pickerel weed.

WATER ICE
Wa"ter ice`.

Defn: Water flavored, sweetened, and frozen, to be eaten as a
confection.

WATERIE
Wa"ter*ie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pied wagtail; -- so called because it frequents ponds.

WATER INCH
Wa"ter inch`.

Defn: Same as Inch of water, under Water.

WATERINESS
Wa"ter*i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being watery; moisture; humidity.

WATERING
Wa"ter*ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Water, v. Watering call (Mil.), a sound of trumpet
or bugle summoning cavalry soldiers to assemble for the purpose of
watering their horses.
 -- Watering cart, a sprinkling cart. See Water.
 -- Watering place. (a) A place where water may be obtained, as for a
ship, for cattle, etc. (b) A place where there are springs of
medicinal water, or a place by the sea, or by some large body of
water, to which people resort for bathing, recreation, boating, etc.
 -- Watering pot. (a) A kind of bucket fitted with a rose, or
perforated nozzle, -- used for watering flowers, paths, etc. (b)
(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of marine bivalve shells of the
genus Aspergillum, or Brechites. The valves are small, and
consolidated with the capacious calcareous tube which incases the
entire animal. The tube is closed at the anterior end by a convex
disk perforated by numerous pores, or tubules, and resembling the
rose of a watering pot.
 -- Watering trough, a trough from which cattle, horses, and other
animals drink.

WATERISH
Wa"ter*ish, a. Etym: [AS. wæterisc.]

1. Resembling water; thin; watery.
Feed upon such nice and waterish diet. Shak.

2. Somewhat watery; moist; as, waterish land.

WATERISHNESS
Wa"ter*ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being waterish.

WATER JACKET
Wa"ter jac"ket.

Defn: A chamber surrounding a vessel or tube in which water may be
circulated, thereby regulating the temperature or supply of heat to
the vessel. Used in laboratory and manufacturing equipment. water-
jacketed. Having a water jacket; -- as, a water-jacketed condenser.

WATER JOINT
Wa"ter joint`. (Arch.)

Defn: A joint in a stone pavement where the stones are left slightly
higher than elsewhere, the rest of the surface being sunken or
dished. The raised surface is intended to prevent the settling of
water in the joints.

WATER JUNKET
Wa"ter jun"ket. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common sandpiper.

WATER-LAID
Wa"ter-laid`, a.

Defn: Having a left-hand twist; -- said of cordage; as, a water-laid,
or left-hand, rope.

WATERLANDER; WATERLANDIAN
Wa`ter*land"er, Wa`ter*land"i*an n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a body of Dutch Anabaptists who separated from the
Mennonites in the sixteenth century; -- so called from a district in
North Holland denominated Waterland.

WATER LAVEROCK
Wa"ter la"ver*ock. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common sandpiper.

WATERLEAF
Wa"ter*leaf`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the American genus Hydrophyllum, herbs having
white or pale blue bell-shaped flowers. Gray.

WATER LEG
Wa"ter leg`. (Steam Boilers)

Defn: See Leg, 7.

WATER LEMON
Wa"ter lem"on. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of two species of passion flower (Passiflora
laurifolia, and P. maliformis); -- so called in the West Indies.

WATERLESS
Wa"ter*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of water; dry. Chaucer.

WATER LETTUCE
Wa"ter let"tuce. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Pistia stratiotes) which floats on tropical waters,
and forms a rosette of spongy, wedge-shaped leaves. J. Smith (Dict.
Econ. Plants).

WATER LEVEL
Wa"ter lev"el.

1. The level formed by the surface of still water.

2. A kind of leveling instrument. See under Level, n.

WATER LILY
Wa"ter lil`y. (Bot.)

Defn: A blossom or plant of any species of the genus Nymphæa,
distinguished for its large floating leaves and beautiful flowers.
See Nymphæa.

Note: The name is extended to various plants of other related genera,
as Nuphar, Euryale, Nelumbo, and Victoria. See Euryale, Lotus, and
Victoria, 1.

WATER LIME
Wa"ter lime`.

Defn: Hydraulic lime.

WATER LINE
Wa"ter line`.

1. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: Any one of certain lines of a vessel, model, or plan, parallel
with the surface of the water at various heights from the keel.

Note: In a half-breadth plan, the water lines are outward curves
showing the horizontal form of the ship at their several heights; in
a sheer plan, they are projected as straight horizontal lines.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Any one of several lines marked upon the outside of a vessel,
corresponding with the surface of the water when she is afloat on an
even keel. The lowest line indicates the vessel's proper submergence
when not loaded, and is called the light water line; the highest,
called the load water line, indicates her proper submergence when
loaded. Water-line model (Shipbuilding), a model of a vessel formed
of boards which are shaped according to the water lines as shown in
the plans and laid upon each other to form a solid model.

WATER LIZARD
Wa"ter liz"ard. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any aquatic lizard of the genus Varanus, as the monitor of the
Nile. See Monitor, n., 3.

WATER LOCUST
Wa"ter lo"cust. (Bot.)

Defn: A thorny leguminous tree (Gleditschia monosperma) which grows
in the swamps of the Mississippi valley.

WATER-LOGGED
Wa"ter-logged, a.

Defn: Filled or saturated with water so as to be heavy, unmanageable,
or loglike; -- said of a vessel, when, by receiving a great quantity
of water into her hold, she has become so heavy as not to be
manageable by the helm.

WATERMAN
Wa"ter*man, n.; pl. Watermen (.

1. A man who plies for hire on rivers, lakes, or canals, or in
harbors, in distinction from a seaman who is engaged on the high
seas; a man who manages fresh-water craft; a boatman; a ferryman.

2. An attendant on cab stands, etc., who supplies water to the
horses. [Eng.] Dickens.

3. A water demon. Tylor.

WATERMANSHIP
Wa"ter*man*ship`, n.

1. The business or skill of a waterman.

2.  Art of, or skill in, rowing; oarsmanship; specif., skill in
managing the blade in the water, as distinguished from managing arms,
body, etc., in the stroke.

WATERMARK
Wa"ter*mark`, n.

1. A mark indicating the height to which water has risen, or at which
it has stood; the usual limit of high or low water.

2. A letter, device, or the like, wrought into paper during the
process of manufacture.

Note: "The watermark in paper is produced by bending the wires of the
mold, or by wires bent into the shape of the required letter or
device, and sewed to the surface of the mold; -- it has the effect of
making the paper thinner in places. The old makers employed
watermarks of an eccentric kind. Those of Caxton and other early
printers were an oxhead and star, a collared dog's head, a crown, a
shield, a jug, etc. A fool's cap and bells, employed as a watermark,
gave the name to foolscap paper; a postman's horn, such as was
formerly in use, gave the name to post paper." Tomlinson.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: See Water line, 2. [R.]

WATER MEADOW
Wa"ter mead"ow. (Agric.)

Defn: A meadow, or piece of low, flat land, capable of being kept in
a state of fertility by being overflowed with water from some
adjoining river or stream.

WATER MEASURE
Wa"ter meas"ure.

Defn: A measure formerly used for articles brought by water, as
coals, oysters, etc. The water-measure bushel was three gallons
larger than the Winchester bushel. Cowell.

WATER MEASURER
Wa"ter meas"ur*er. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of water; the skater. See Skater,
n., 2.

WATERMELON
Wa"ter*mel`on, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The very large ovoid or roundish fruit of a cucurbitaceous
plant (Citrullus vulgaris) of many varieties; also, the plant itself.
The fruit sometimes weighs many pounds; its pulp is usually pink in
color, and full of a sweet watery juice. It is a native of tropical
Africa, but is now cultivated in many countries. See Illust. of
Melon.

WATER METER
Wa"ter me"ter.

Defn: A contrivance for measuring a supply of water delivered or
received for any purpose, as from a street main.

WATER MILFOIL
Wa"ter mil"foil. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Myriophyllum, aquatic herbs with whorled
leaves, the submersed ones pinnately parted into capillary divisions.

WATER MILL
Wa"ter mill`.

Defn: A mill whose machinery is moved by water; -- distinguished from
a windmill, and a steam mill.

WATER MINT
Wa"ter mint`.

Defn: A kind of mint (Mentha aquatica) growing in wet places, and
sometimes having a perfume resembling bergamot.

WATER MITE
Wa"ter mite`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any of numerous species of aquatic mites belonging to Hydrachna
and allied genera of the family Hydrachnidæ, usually having the legs
fringed and adapted for swimming. They are often red or red and black
in color, and while young are parasites of fresh-water insects and
mussels. Called also water tick, and water spider.

WATER MOCCASIN
Wa"ter moc"ca*sin. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A venomous North American snake (Ancistrodon piscivorus) allied
to the rattlesnake but destitute of a rattle. It lives in or about
pools and ponds, and feeds largely of fishes. Called also water
snake, water adder, water viper.

WATER MOLE
Wa"ter mole`. (Zoöl.)
(a) The shrew mole. See under Shrew.
(b) The duck mole. See under Duck.

WATER MONITOR
Wa"ter mon"i*tor. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large lizard (Varanaus salvator) native of India. It
frequents the borders of streams and swims actively. It becomes five
or six feet long. Called also two-banded monitor, and kabaragoya. The
name is also applied to other aquatic monitors.

WATER MONKEY
Water monkey.

Defn: A jar or bottle, as of porous earthenware, in which water is
cooled by evaporation.

WATER MOTOR
Wa"ter mo"tor.

1. A water engine.

2. A water wheel; especially, a small water wheel driven by water
from a street main.

WATER MOUSE
Wa"ter mouse`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of mice belonging to the genus
Hydromys, native of Australia and Tasmania. Their hind legs are
strong and their toes partially webbed. They live on the borders of
streams, and swim well. They are remarkable as being the only rodents
found in Australia.

WATER MURRAIN
Wa"ter mur"rain.

Defn: A kind of murrain affecting cattle. Crabb.

WATER NEWT
Wa"ter newt`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders; a triton.

WATER NYMPH
Wa"ter nymph`.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A goddess of any stream or other body of water, whether one of
the Naiads, Nereids, or Oceanides.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A water lily (Nymphæa).

WATER OAT
Wa"ter oat`.

Defn: Indian rice. See under Rice.

WATER OPOSSUM
Wa"ter o*pos"sum. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Yapock, and the Note under Opossum.

WATER ORDEAL
Wa"ter or"de*al.

Defn: Same as Ordeal by water. See the Note under Ordeal, n., 1.

WATER OUSEL; WATER OUZEL
Wa"ter ou"sel, Wa"ter ou"zel. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small insessorial birds of the
genus Cinclus (or Hydrobates), especially the European water ousel
(C. aquaticus), and the American water ousel (C. Mexicanus). These
birds live about the water, and are in the habit of walking on the
bottom of streams beneath the water in search of food.

WATER PARSNIP
Wa"ter pars"nip. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the aquatic umbelliferous genus Sium, poisonous
herbs with pinnate or dissected leaves and small white flowers.

WATER PARTING
Water parting. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A summit from the opposite sides of which rain waters flow to
different streams; a line separating the drainage districts of two
streams or coasts; a divide.

WATER PARTRIDGE
Wa"ter par"tridge. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ruddy duck. [Local, U. S.]

WATER PENNYWORT
Wa"ter pen"ny*wort`. (Bot.)

Defn: Marsh pennywort. See under Marsh.

WATER PEPPER
Wa"ter pep"per. (Bot.)
(a) Smartweed.
(b) Waterwort.

WATER PHEASANT
Wa"ter pheas"ant. (Zoöl.)
(a) The pintail. See Pintail, n., 1.
(b) The goosander.
(c) The hooded merganser.

WATER PIET
Wa"ter pi"et. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The water ousel.

WATER PIG
Wa"ter pig`.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The capybara.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gourami.

WATER PILLAR
Wa"ter pil"lar.

Defn: A waterspout. [Obs.]

WATER PIMPERNEL
Wa"ter pim"per*nel. (Bot.)

Defn: A small white-flowered shrub; brookweed.

WATER PIPE
Wa"ter pipe.

Defn: A pipe for conveying water.

WATER PITCHER
Wa"ter pitch"er.

1. A pitcher for water.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of a family of plants having pitcher-shaped leaves. The
sidesaddle flower (Sarracenia purpurea) is the type.

WATER PLANT
Wa"ter plant`.

Defn: A plant that grows in water; an aquatic plant.

WATER PLANTAIN
Wa"ter plan"tain. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of plant with acrid leaves. See under 2d Plantain.

WATER PLATE
Wa"ter plate`.

Defn: A plate heated by hot water contained in a double bottom or
jacket. Knight.

WATER POA
Wa"ter po"a. (Bot.)

Defn: Meadow reed grass. See under Reed.

WATER POCKET
Water pocket.

Defn: A water hole in the bed of an intermittent stream, esp. the
bowl at the foot of a cliff over which the stream leaps when in the
flood stage. [Western U. S.]

WATER POISE
Wa"ter poise`.

Defn: A hydrometer.

WATER PORE
Wa"ter pore`

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A pore by which the water tubes of various invertebrates open
externally.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of certain minute pores in the leaves of some plants. They
are without true guardian cells, but in other respects closely
resemble ordinary stomata. Goodale.

WATERPOT
Wa"ter*pot`, n.

Defn: A vessel for holding or conveying water, or for sprinkling
water on cloth, plants, etc.

WATER POWER
Wa"ter pow"er.

1. The power of water employed to move machinery, etc.

2. A fall of water which may be used to drive machinery; a site for a
water mill; a water privilege.

WATER POX
Wa"ter pox`. (Med.)

Defn: A variety of chicken pox, or varicella. Dunglison.

WATER PRIVILEGE
Wa"ter priv"i*lege.

Defn: The advantage of using water as a mechanical power; also, the
place where water is, or may be, so used. See under Privilege.

WATERPROOF
Wa"ter*proof`, a.

Defn: Proof against penetration or permeation by water; impervious to
water; as, a waterproof garment; a waterproof roof.

WATERPROOF
Wa"ter*proof`, n.

1. A substance or preparation for rendering cloth, leather, etc.,
impervious to water.

2. Cloth made waterproof, or any article made of such cloth, or of
other waterproof material, as rubber; esp., an outer garment made of
such material.

WATERPROOF
Wa"ter*proof`, v. t.

Defn: To render impervious to water, as cloth, leather, etc.

WATERPROOFING
Wa"ter*proof`ing, n.

1. The act or process of making waterproof.

2. Same as Waterproof, n., 1.

WATER PURSLANE
Wa"ter purs"lane. (Bot.)

Defn: See under Purslane.

WATER QUALM
Wa"ter qualm`. (Med.)

Defn: See Water brash, under Brash.

WATER RABBIT
Wa"ter rab"bit. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Water hare.

WATER RADISH
Wa"ter rad"ish. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse yellow-flowered plant (Nasturtium amphibium) related
to the water cress and to the horse-radish.

WATER RAIL
Wa"ter rail`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of rails of the genus Rallus, as
the common European species (Rallus aquaticus). See Illust. of Rail.

WATER RAM
Wa"ter ram`.

Defn: An hydraulic ram.

WATER RAT
Wa"ter rat`.

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) The water vole. See under Vole.
(b) The muskrat.
(c) The beaver rat. See under Beaver.

2. A thief on the water; a pirate.

WATER RATE
Wa"ter rate`.

Defn: A rate or tax for a supply of water.

WATER RATTLE; WATER RATTLER
Wa"ter rat"tle or Wa"ter rat"tler. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus); -- so called
from its preference for damp places near water.

WATER-RET
Wa"ter-ret`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Water-retted; p. pr. & vb. n. Water-
retting.]

Defn: To ret, or rot, in water, as flax; to water-rot.

WATER RICE
Wa"ter rice".

Defn: Indian rice. See under Rice.

WATER ROCKET
Wa"ter rock"et.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A cruciferous plant (Nasturtium sylvestre) with small yellow
flowers.

2. A kind of firework to be discharged in the water.

WATER-ROT
Wa"ter-rot`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Water-rotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Water-
rotting.]

Defn: To rot by steeping in water; to water-ret; as, to water-rot
hemp or flax.

WATER SAIL
Wa"ter sail`. (Naut.)

Defn: A small sail sometimes set under a studding sail or under a
driver boom, and reaching nearly to the water.

WATER SAPPHIRE
Wa"ter sap"phire. Etym: [Equiv. to F. saphir d'eau.] (Min.)

Defn: A deep blue variety of iolite, sometimes used as a gem; --
called also saphir d'eau.

WATERSCAPE
Wa"ter*scape", n. Etym: [Cf. Landscape.]

Defn: A sea view; -- distinguished from landscape. [Jocose] Fairholt.

WATER SCORPION
Wa"ter scor"pi*on. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Nepa.

WATER SCREW
Wa"ter screw`.

Defn: A screw propeller.

WATERSHED
Wa"ter*shed`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. wasserscheide; wasser water + scheide
a place where two things separate, fr. scheiden to separate.]

1. The whole region or extent of country which contributes to the
supply of a river or lake.

2. The line of division between two adjacent rivers or lakes with
respect to the flow of water by natural channels into them; the
natural boundary of a basin.

WATER SHIELD
Wa"ter shield`. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic American plant (Brasenia peltata) having floating
oval leaves, and the covered with a clear jelly.

WATERSHOOT
Wa"ter*shoot`, n.

1. A sprig or shoot from the root or stock of a tree. [Obs.]

2. (Arch.)

Defn: That which serves to guard from falling water; a drip or
dripstone.

3. A trough for discharging water.

WATER SHREW
Wa"ter shrew`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of shrews having fringed feet and
capable of swimming actively. The two common European species
(Crossopus fodiens, and C. ciliatus) are the best known. The most
common American water shrew, or marsh shrew (Neosorex palustris), is
rarely seen, owing to its nocturnal habits.

WATER SNAIL
Wa"ter snail`.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any aquatic pulmonate gastropod belonging to Planorbis, Limnæa,
and allied genera; a pond snail.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: The Archimedean screw. [R.]

WATER SNAKE
Wa"ter snake`. (Zoöl.)
(a) A common North American colubrine snake (Tropidonotus sipedon)
which lives chiefly in the water.
(b) Any species of snakes of the family Homalopsidæ, all of which are
aquatic in their habits.

WATER-SOAK
Wa"ter-soak`, v. t.

Defn: To soak water; to fill the interstices of with water.

WATER SOLDIER
Wa"ter sol`dier. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic European plant (Stratiotes aloides) with bayonet-
shaped leaves.

WATER SOUCHY
Wa"ter souch`y. (Cookery)

Defn: A dish consisting of small fish stewed and served in a little
water. [Written also water souchet.] See Zoutch.

WATER SPANIEL
Wa"ter span"iel.

Defn: A curly-haired breed of spaniels, naturally very fond of the
water.

WATER SPARROW
Wa"ter spar"row. (Zoöl.)
(a) The reed warbler. [Prov. Eng.]
(b) The reed bunting. [Prov. Eng.]

WATER SPEEDWELL
Wa"ter speed"well. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of speedwell (Veronica Anagallis) found in wet places in
Europe and America.

WATER SPIDER
Wa"ter spi"der. (Zoöl.)
(a) An aquatic European spider (Argyoneta aquatica) which constructs
its web beneath the surface of the water on water plants. It lives in
a bell-shaped structure of silk, open beneath like a diving bell, and
filled with air which the spider carries down in the form of small
bubbles attached one at a time to the spinnerets and hind feet.
Called also diving spider.
(b) A water mite.
(c) Any spider that habitually lives on or about the water,
especially the large American species (Dolomedes lanceolatus) which
runs rapidly on the surface of water; -- called also raft spider.

WATER SPINNER
Wa"ter spin`ner. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The water spider.

WATERSPOUT
Wa"ter*spout`, n.

Defn: A remarkable meteorological phenomenon, of the nature of a
tornado or whirlwind, usually observed over the sea, but sometimes
over the land.

Note: Tall columns, apparently of cloud, and reaching from the sea to
the clouds, are seen moving along, often several at once, sometimes
straight and vertical, at other times inclined and tortuous, but
always in rapid rotation. At their bases, the sea is violently
agitated and heaped up with a leaping or boiling motion, water, at
least in some cases, being actually carried up in considerable
quantity, and scattered round from a great height, as solid bodies
are by tornadoes on land. Sir J. Herschel.

WATER SPRITE
Wa"ter sprite`.

Defn: A sprite, or spirit, imagined as inhabiting the water. J. R.
Drake.

WATER-STANDING
Wa"ter-stand`ing, a.

Defn: Tear-filled. [R.] "Many an orphan's water-standing eye." Shak.

WATER STAR GRASS
Wa"ter star" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic plant (Schollera graminea) with grassy leaves, and
yellow star-shaped blossoms.

WATER STARWORT
Wa"ter star"wort`.

Defn: See under Starwort.

WATER SUPPLY
Wa"ter sup*ply".

Defn: A supply of water; specifically, water collected, as in
reservoirs, and conveyed, as by pipes, for use in a city, mill, or
the like.

WATER TABBY
Wa"ter tab"by.

Defn: A kind of waved or watered tabby. See Tabby, n., 1.

WATER TABLE
Wa"ter ta"ble. (Arch.)

Defn: A molding, or other projection, in the wall of a building, to
throw off the water, -- generally used in the United States for the
first table above the surface of the ground (see Table, n., 9), that
is, for the table at the top of the foundation and the beginning of
the upper wall.

WATERTATH
Wa"ter*tath`, n. Etym: [Water + tath, n.]

Defn: A kind of coarse grass growing in wet grounds, and supposed to
be injurious to sheep. [Prov. Eng.]

WATER TELESCOPE
Water telescope.

1. (Optics) A telescope in which the medium between the objective and
the eye piece is water instead of air, used in some experiments in
aberration.

2.  A telescope devised for looking into a body of water.

WATER TENDER
Water tender. (Nav.)

Defn: In the United States navy, a first-class petty officer in
charge in a fireroom. He "tends" water to the boilers, sees that
fires are properly cleaned and stoked, etc. There is also a rating of
chief water tender, who is a chief petty officer.

WATER THERMOMETER
Wa"ter ther*mom"e*ter. (Physics)

Defn: A thermometer filled with water instead of mercury, for
ascertaining the precise temperature at which water attains its
maximum density. This is about 39º Fahr., or 4º Centigrade; and from
that point down to 32º Fahr., or 0º Centigrade, or the freezing
point, it expands.

WATER THIEF
Wa"ter thief`.

Defn: A pirate. [R.] Shak.

WATER THRUSH
Wa"ter thrush`. (Zoöl.)
(a) A North American bird of the genus Seiurus, belonging to the
Warbler family, especially the common species (S. Noveboracensis).
(b) The European water ousel.
(b) The pied wagtail.

WATER THYME
Wa"ter thyme`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Anacharis.

WATER TICK
Wa"ter tick`.

Defn: Same as Water mite.

WATER TIGER
Wa"ter ti"ger. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A diving, or water, beetle, especially the larva of a water
beetle. See Illust. b of Water beetle.

WATER-TIGHT
Wa"ter-tight`, a.

Defn: So tight as to retain, or not to admit, water; not leaky.

WATER TORCH
Wa"ter torch`. (Bot.)

Defn: The common cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the spike of which makes
a good torch soaked in oil. Dr. Prior.

WATER TOWER
Wa"ter tow"er.

Defn: A large metal pipe made to be extended vertically by sections,
and used for discharging water upon burning buildings.

WATER TREE
Wa"ter tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing shrub (Tetracera alnifolia, or potatoria) of Western
Africa, which pours out a watery sap from the freshly cut stems.

WATER TREFOIL
Wa"ter tre"foil`. (Bot.)

Defn: The buck bean.

WATER TUBE
Wa"ter tube`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a system of tubular excretory organs having external
openings, found in many invertebrates. They are believed to be
analogous in function to the kidneys of vertebrates. See Illust.
under Trematodea, and Sporocyst.

WATER TUPELO
Wa"ter tu"pe*lo. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of large tupelo (Nyssa aquatica) growing in swamps in
the southern of the United States. See Ogeechee lime.

WATER TURKEY
Wa"ter tur"key. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American snakebird. See Snakebird.

WATER TU TUYERE
Wa"ter tu tu`yère".

Defn: A tuyère kept cool by water circulating within a casing. It is
used for hot blast.

WATER TU TWIST
Wa"ter tu twist`.

Defn: Yarn made by the throstle, or water frame.

WATER VINE
Wa"ter vine`. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Phytocrene, climbing shrubs of Asia and
Africa, the stems of which are singularly porous, and when cut stream
with a limpid potable juice.

WATER VIOLET
Wa"ter vi"o*let. (Bot.)

Defn: See under Violet.

WATER VIPER
Wa"ter vi"per. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Water moccasin.

WATER VOLE
Wa"ter vole`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See under Vole.

WATER WAGTAIL
Wa"ter wag"tail`.

Defn: See under Wagtail.

WATERWAY
Wa"ter*way`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Heavy plank or timber extending fore and aft the whole length
of a vessel's deck at the line of junction with the sides, forming a
channel to the scuppers, which are cut through it. In iron vessels
the waterway is variously constructed.

WATER WAY
Wa"ter way`.

Defn: Same as Water course.

WATERWEED
Wa"ter*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Anacharis.

WATER WHEEL
Wa"ter wheel`.

1. Any wheel for propelling machinery or for other purposes, that is
made to rotate by the direct action of water; -- called an overshot
wheel when the water is applied at the top, an undershot wheel when
at the bottom, a breast wheel when at an intermediate point; other
forms are called reaction wheel, vortex wheel, turbine wheel, etc.

2. The paddle wheel of a steam vessel.

3. A wheel for raising water; a noria, or the like.

WATER-WHITE
Wa"ter-white`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts
in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is
sometimes used for quenching thirst.

WATER WILLOW
Wa"ter wil`low. (Bot.)

Defn: An American aquatic plant (Dianthera Americana) with long
willowlike leaves, and spikes of small purplish flowers.

WATER WING
Wa"ter wing`. (Arch.)

Defn: One of two walls built on either side of the junction of a
bridge with the bank of a river, to protect the abutment of the
bridge and the bank from the action of the current.

WATER WITCH
Wa"ter witch`. (Zoöl.)
(a) The dabchick.
(b) The stormy petrel. [Prov. Eng.]

WATER-WITHE
Wa"ter-withe`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts
in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is
sometimes used for quenching thirst.

WATERWORK
Wa"ter*work`, n.

1. (Paint.)

Defn: Painting executed in size or distemper, on canvas or walls, --
formerly, frequently taking the place of tapestry. Shak. Fairholt.

2. An hydraulic apparatus, or a system of works or fixtures, by which
a supply of water is furnished for useful or ornamental purposes,
including dams, sluices, pumps, aqueducts, distributing pipes,
fountains, etc.; -- used chiefly in the plural.

WATERWORN
Wa"ter*worn`, a.

Defn: Worn, smoothed, or polished by the action of water; as,
waterworn stones.

WATERWORT
Wa"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the natural order Elatineæ, consisting of two
genera (Elatine, and Bergia), mostly small annual herbs growing in
the edges of ponds. Some have a peppery or acrid taste.

WATERY
Wa"ter*y, a. Etym: [AS. wæterig.]

1. Of or pertaining to water; consisting of water. "The watery god."
Dryden. "Fish within their watery residence." Milton.

2. Abounding with water; wet; hence, tearful.

3. Resembling water; thin or transparent, as a liquid; as, watery
humors.
The oily and watery parts of the aliment. Arbuthnot.

4. Hence, abounding in thin, tasteless, or insipid fluid; tasteless;
insipid; vapid; spiritless.

WATT
Watt, n. Etym: [From the distinguished mechanician and scientist,
James Watt.] (Physics)

Defn: A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power,
or to work done at the rate of one joule a second. An English horse
power is approximately equal to 746 watts.

WATTEAU
Wat*teau", a. (Art)

Defn: Having the appearance of that which is seen in pictures by
Antoine Watteau, a French painter of the eighteenth century; --said
esp. of women's garments; as, a Watteau bodice.

WATTEAU BACK
Watteau back.

Defn: The back of a woman's gown in which one or more very broad
folds are carried from the neck to the floor without being held in at
the waist, while the front and sides of the gown are shaped to the
person and have a belt or its equivalent.

WATTLE
Wat"tle, n. Etym: [AS. watel, watul, watol, hurdle, covering, wattle;
cf. OE. watel a bag. Cf. Wallet.]

1. A twig or flexible rod; hence, a hurdle made of such rods.
And there he built with wattles from the marsh A little lonely church
in days of yore. Tennyson.

2. A rod laid on a roof to support the thatch.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A naked fleshy, and usually wrinkled and highly colored, process
of the skin hanging from the chin or throat of a bird or reptile.
(b) Barbel of a fish.

4.
(a) The astringent bark of several Australian trees of the genus
Acacia, used in tanning; -- called also wattle bark.
(b) (Bot.) The trees from which the bark is obtained. See Savanna
wattle, under Savanna. Wattle turkey. (Zoöl.) Same as Brush turkey.

WATTLE
Wat"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wattled; p. pr. & vb. n. Wattling.]

1. To bind with twigs.

2. To twist or interweave, one with another, as twigs; to form a
network with; to plat; as, to wattle branches.

3. To form, by interweaving or platting twigs.
The folded flocks, penned in their wattled cotes. Milton.

WATTLEBIRD
Wat"tle*bird`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of honey eaters belonging to
Anthochæra and allied genera of the family Meliphagidæ. These birds
usually have a large and conspicuous wattle of naked skin hanging
down below each ear. They are natives of Australia and adjacent
islands.

Note: The best-known species (Anthochæra carunculata) has the upper
parts grayish brown, with a white stripe on each feather, and the
wing and tail quills dark brown or blackish, tipped with withe. Its
wattles, in life, are light blood-red. Called also wattled crow,
wattled bee-eater, wattled honey eater. Another species (A. inauris)
is streaked with black, gray, and white, and its long wattles are
white, tipped with orange. The bush wattlebirds, belonging to the
genus Anellobia, are closely related, but lack conspicuous wattles.
The most common species (A. mellivora) is dark brown, finely streaked
with white. Called also goruck creeper.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Australian brush turkey.

WATTLED
Wat"tled, a.

Defn: Furnished with wattles, or pendent fleshy processes at the chin
or throat.
The wattled cocks strut to and fro. Longfellow.

WATTLESS
Watt"less, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Without any power (cf. Watt); -- said of an alternating current
or component of current when it differs in phase by ninety degrees
from the electromotive force which produces it, or of an
electromotive force or component thereof when the current it produces
differs from it in phase by 90 degrees.

WATTLING
Wat"tling, n.

Defn: The act or process of binding or platting with twigs; also, the
network so formed.
Made with a wattling of canes or sticks. Dampier.

WATTMETER
Watt"me`ter, n. Etym: [Watt + meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring power in watts, -- much used in
measuring the energy of an electric current.

WAUCHT; WAUGHT
Waucht, Waught, n. Etym: [Cf. Quaff.]

Defn: A large draught of any liquid. [Scot.] Jamieson.

WAUL
Waul, v. i. Etym: [Of imitative origin.]

Defn: To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail. [Written also wawl.]
The helpless infant, coming wauling and crying into the world. Sir W.
Scott.

WAUR
Waur, a. Etym: [See Worse.]

Defn: Worse. [Scot.]
Murder and waur than number. Sir W. Scott.

WAVE
Wave, v. t.

Defn: See Wave. Sir H. Wotton. Burke.

WAVE
Wave, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Waved; p. pr. & vb. n. Waving.] Etym: [OE.
waven, AS. wafian to waver, to hesitate, to wonder; akin to wæfre
wavering, restless, MHG. wabern to be in motion, Icel. vafra to hover
about; cf. Icel. vafa to vibrate. Cf. Waft, Waver.]

1. To play loosely; to move like a wave, one way and the other; to
float; to flutter; to undulate.
His purple robes waved careless to the winds. Trumbull.
Where the flags of three nations has successively waved. Hawthorne.

2. To be moved to and fro as a signal. B. Jonson.

3. To fluctuate; to waver; to be in an unsettled state; to vacillate.
[Obs.]
He waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm. Shak.

WAVE
Wave, v. t.

1. To move one way and the other; to brandish. "[Æneas] waved his
fatal sword." Dryden.

2. To raise into inequalities of surface; to give an undulating form
a surface to.
Horns whelked and waved like the enridged sea. Shak.

3. To move like a wave, or by floating; to waft. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

4. To call attention to, or give a direction or command to, by a
waving motion, as of the hand; to signify by waving; to beckon; to
signal; to indicate.
Look, with what courteous action It waves you to a more removed
ground. Shak.
She spoke, and bowing waved Dismissal. Tennyson.

WAVE
Wave, n. Etym: [From Wave, v.; not the same word as OE. wawe, waghe,
a wave, which is akin to E. wag to move. Wave, v. i.]

1. An advancing ridge or swell on the surface of a liquid, as of the
sea, resulting from the oscillatory motion of the particles composing
it when disturbed by any force their position of rest; an undulation.
The wave behind impels the wave before. Pope.

2. (Physics)

Defn: A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body
or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of
vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase
repeated; a wave of vibration; an undulation. See Undulation.

3. Water; a body of water. [Poetic] "Deep drank Lord Marmion of the
wave." Sir W. Scott.
Build a ship to save thee from the flood, I 'll furnish thee with
fresh wave, bread, and wine. Chapman.

4. Unevenness; inequality of surface. Sir I. Newton.

5. A waving or undulating motion; a signal made with the hand, a
flag, etc.

6. The undulating line or streak of luster on cloth watered, or
calendered, or on damask steel.

7. Fig.: A swelling or excitement of thought, feeling, or energy; a
tide; as, waves of enthusiasm. Wave front (Physics), the surface of
initial displacement of the particles in a medium, as a wave of
vibration advances.
 -- Wave length (Physics), the space, reckoned in the direction of
propagation, occupied by a complete wave or undulation, as of light,
sound, etc.; the distance from a point or phase in a wave to the
nearest point at which the same phase occurs.
 -- Wave line (Shipbuilding), a line of a vessel's hull, shaped in
accordance with the wave-line system.
 -- Wave-line system, Wave-line theory (Shipbuilding), a system or
theory of designing the lines of a vessel, which takes into
consideration the length and shape of a wave which travels at a
certain speed.
 -- Wave loaf, a loaf for a wave offering. Lev. viii. 27.
 -- Wave moth (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small geometrid
moths belonging to Acidalia and allied genera; -- so called from the
wavelike color markings on the wings.
 -- Wave offering, an offering made in the Jewish services by waving
the object, as a loaf of bread, toward the four cardinal points. Num.
xviii. 11.
 -- Wave of vibration (Physics), a wave which consists in, or is
occasioned by, the production and transmission of a vibratory state
from particle to particle through a body.
 -- Wave surface. (a) (Physics) A surface of simultaneous and equal
displacement of the particles composing a wave of vibration. (b)
(Geom.) A mathematical surface of the fourth order which, upon
certain hypotheses, is the locus of a wave surface of light in the
interior of crystals. It is used in explaining the phenomena of
double refraction. See under Refraction.
 -- Wave theory. (Physics) See Undulatory theory, under Undulatory.

WAVED
Waved, a.

1. Exhibiting a wavelike form or outline; undulating; intended; wavy;
as, waved edge.

2. Having a wavelike appearance; marked with wavelike lines of color;
as, waved, or watered, silk.

3. (Her.)

Defn: Having undulations like waves; -- said of one of the lines in
heraldry which serve as outlines to the ordinaries, etc.

WAVELESS
Wave"less, a.

Defn: Free from waves; undisturbed; not agitated; as, the waveless
sea.

WAVELET
Wave"let, n.

Defn: A little wave; a ripple.

WAVELLITE
Wa"vel*lite, n. Etym: [After Dr. Wm. Wavel, the discoverer.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous phosphate of alumina, occurring usually in
hemispherical radiated forms varying in color from white to yellow,
green, or black.

WAVER
Wa"ver, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Wavered; p. pr. & vb. n. Wavering.] Etym:
[OE. waveren, from AS. wæfre wavering, restless. See Wave, v. i.]

1. To play or move to and fro; to move one way and the other; hence,
to totter; to reel; to swing; to flutter.
With banners and pennons wavering with the wind. Ld. Berners.
Thou wouldst waver on one of these trees as a terror to all evil
speakers against dignities. Sir W. Scott.

2. To be unsettled in opinion; to vacillate; to be undetermined; to
fluctuate; as, to water in judgment.
Let us hold fast . . . without wavering. Heb. x. 23.
In feeble hearts, propense enough before To waver, or fall off and
join with idols. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To reel; totter; vacillate. See Fluctuate.

WAVER
Wa"ver, n. Etym: [From Wave, or Waver, v.]

Defn: A sapling left standing in a fallen wood. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

WAVERER
Wa"ver*er, n.

Defn: One who wavers; one who is unsettled in doctrine, faith,
opinion, or the like. Shak.

WAVERINGLY
Wa"ver*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a wavering manner.

WAVERINGNESS
Wa"ver*ing*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of wavering.

WAVESON
Wave"son, n. Etym: [From Wave; cf. Jetsam.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: Goods which, after shipwreck, appear floating on the waves, or
sea.

WAVE-WORN
Wave"-*worn`, a.

Defn: Worn by the waves.
The shore that o'er his wave-worn basis bowed. Shak.

WAVEY
Wa"vey, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The snow goose. [Canadian, & Local U. S.]

WAVINESS
Wav"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being wavy.

WAVURE
Wav"ure, n.

Defn: See Waivure. [R.]

WAVY
Wav"y, a.

1. Rising or swelling in waves; full of waves. "The wavy seas."
Chapman.

2. Playing to and fro; undulating; as, wavy flames.
Let her glad valleys smile with wavy corn. Prior.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Undulating on the border or surface; waved.

WAWASKEESH
Wa*was"keesh, n. Etym: [From an Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wapiti, or wapiti, or American elk.

WAWE
Wawe, n. Etym: [See Woe.]

Defn: Woe. [Obs.]

WAWE
Wawe, n. Etym: [OE. wawe, waghe; cf. Icel. vagr; akin to E. wag; not
the same word as wave.]

Defn: A wave. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

WAWL
Wawl, v. i.

Defn: See Waul. Shak.

WAX
Wax, v. i. [imp. Waxed; p. p. Waxed, and Obs. or Poetic Waxen (; p.
pr. & vb. n. Waxing.] Etym: [AS. weaxan; akin to OFries. waxa, D.
wassen, OS. & OHG. wahsan, G. wachsen, Icel. vaxa, Sw. växa, Dan.
voxe, Goth. wahsjan, Gr. waksh, uksh, to grow. Waist.]

1. To increase in size; to grow bigger; to become larger or fuller; -
- opposed to wane.
The waxing and the waning of the moon. Hakewill.
Truth's treasures . . . never shall wax ne wane. P. Plowman.

2. To pass from one state to another; to become; to grow; as, to wax
strong; to wax warmer or colder; to wax feeble; to wax old; to wax
worse and worse.
Your clothes are not waxen old upon you. Deut. xxix. 5.
Where young Adonis oft reposes, Waxing well of his deep wound.
Milton.
Waxing kernels (Med.), small tumors formed by the enlargement of the
lymphatic glands, especially in the groins of children; -- popularly
so called, because supposed to be caused by growth of the body.
Dunglison.

WAX
Wax, n. Etym: [AS. weax; akin to OFries. wax, D. was, G. wachs, OHG.
wahs, Icel. & Sw. vax, Dan. vox, Lith. vaszkas, Russ. vosk'.]

1. A fatty, solid substance, produced by bees, and employed by them
in the construction of their comb; -- usually called beeswax. It is
first excreted, from a row of pouches along their sides, in the form
of scales, which, being masticated and mixed with saliva, become
whitened and tenacious. Its natural color is pale or dull yellow.

Note: Beeswax consists essentially of cerotic acid (constituting the
more soluble part) and of myricyl palmitate (constituting the less
soluble part).

2. Hence, any substance resembling beeswax in consistency or
appearance. Specifically: --(a) (Physiol.)

Defn: Cerumen, or earwax. See Cerumen.
(b) A waxlike composition used for uniting surfaces, for excluding
air, and for other purposes; as, sealing wax, grafting wax, etching
wax, etc.
(c) A waxlike composition used by shoemakers for rubbing their
thread.
(d) (Zoöl.) A substance similar to beeswax, secreted by several
species of scale insects, as the Chinese wax. See Wax insect, below.
(e) (Bot.) A waxlike product secreted by certain plants. See
Vegetable wax, under Vegetable. (f) (Min.)

Defn: A substance, somewhat resembling wax, found in connection with
certain deposits of rock salt and coal; -- called also mineral wax,
and ozocerite.
(g) Thick sirup made by boiling down the sap of the sugar maple, and
then cooling. [Local U.S.] Japanese wax, a waxlike substance made in
Japan from the berries of certain species of Rhus, esp. R.
succedanea.
 -- Mineral wax. (Min.) See Wax, 2 (f), above.
 -- Wax cloth. See Waxed cloth, under Waxed.
 -- Wax end. See Waxed end, under Waxed.
 -- Wax flower, a flower made of, or resembling, wax.
 -- Wax insect (Zoöl.), any one of several species of scale insects
belonging to the family Coccidæ, which secrete from their bodies a
waxlike substance, especially the Chinese wax insect (Coccus
Sinensis) from which a large amount of the commercial Chinese wax is
obtained. Called also pela.
 -- Wax light, a candle or taper of wax.
 -- Wax moth (Zoöl.), a pyralid moth (Galleria cereana) whose larvæ
feed upon honeycomb, and construct silken galleries among the
fragments. The moth has dusky gray wings streaked with brown near the
outer edge. The larva is yellowish white with brownish dots. Called
also bee moth.
 -- Wax myrtle. (Bot.) See Bayberry.
 -- Wax painting, a kind of painting practiced by the ancients, under
the name of encaustic. The pigments were ground with wax, and
diluted. After being applied, the wax was melted with hot irons and
the color thus fixed.
 -- Wax palm. (Bot.) (a) A species of palm (Ceroxylon Andicola)
native of the Andes, the stem of which is covered with a secretion,
consisting of two thirds resin and one third wax, which, when melted
with a third of fat, makes excellent candles. (b) A Brazilian tree
(Copernicia cerifera) the young leaves of which are covered with a
useful waxy secretion.
 -- Wax paper, paper prepared with a coating of white wax and other
ingredients.
 -- Wax plant (Bot.), a name given to several plants, as: (a) The
Indian pipe (see under Indian). (b) The Hoya carnosa, a climbing
plant with polished, fleshy leaves. (c) Certain species of Begonia
with similar foliage.
 -- Wax tree (Bot.) (a) A tree or shrub (Ligustrum lucidum) of China,
on which certain insects make a thick deposit of a substance
resembling white wax. (b) A kind of sumac (Rhus succedanea) of Japan,
the berries of which yield a sort of wax. (c) A rubiaceous tree
(Elæagia utilis) of New Grenada, called by the inhabitants "arbol del
cera." -- Wax yellow, a dull yellow, resembling the natural color of
beeswax.

WAX
Wax, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Waxed; p. pr. & vb. n. Waxing.]

Defn: To smear or rub with wax; to treat with wax; as, to wax a
thread or a table. Waxed cloth, cloth covered with a coating of wax,
used as a cover, of tables and for other purposes; -- called also wax
cloth.
 -- Waxed end, a thread pointed with a bristle and covered with
shoemaker's wax, used in sewing leather, as for boots, shoes, and the
like; -- called also wax end. Brockett.

WAXBERRY
Wax"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The wax-covered fruit of the wax myrtle, or bayberry. See
Bayberry, and Candleberry tree.

WAXBILL
Wax"bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of finchlike birds belonging to
Estrelda and allied genera, native of Asia, Africa, and Australia.
The bill is large, conical, and usually red in color, resembling
sealing wax. Several of the species are often kept as cage birds.

WAXBIRD
Wax"bird`, (Zoöl.)

Defn: The waxwing.

WAXEN
Wax"en, a.

1. Made of wax. "The female bee, that . . . builds her waxen cells."
Milton.

2. Covered with wax; waxed; as, a waxen tablet.

3. Resembling wax; waxy; hence, soft; yielding.
Men have marble, women waxen, minds. Shak.
Waxen chatterer (Zoöl.), the Bohemian chatterer.

WAXINESS
Wax"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being waxy.

WAXWING
Wax"wing`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small birds of the genus Ampelis,
in which some of the secondary quills are usually tipped with small
horny ornaments resembling red sealing wax. The Bohemian waxwing (see
under Bohemian) and the cedar bird are examples. Called also waxbird.

WAXWORK
Wax"work`, n.

1. Work made of wax; especially, a figure or figures formed or partly
of wax, in imitation of real beings.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An American climbing shrub (Celastrus scandens). It bears a
profusion of yellow berrylike pods, which open in the autumn, and
display the scarlet coverings of the seeds.

WAXWORKER
Wax"work`er, n.

1. One who works in wax; one who makes waxwork.

2. A bee that makes or produces wax.

WAXWORKS
Wax"works`, n. pl.

Defn: An exhibition of wax figures, or the place of exhibition.

WAXY
Wax"y, a.

Defn: Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive;
soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible. "Waxy to persuasion."
Bp. Hall. Waxy degeneration (Med.), amyloid degeneration. See under
Amyloid.
 -- Waxy kidney, Waxy liver, etc. (Med.), a kidney or liver affected
by waxy degeneration.

WAY
Way, adv. Etym: [Aphetic form of away.]

Defn: Away. [Obs. or Archaic] Chaucer. To do way, to take away; to
remove. [Obs.] "Do way your hands." Chaucer.
 -- To make way with, to make away with. See under Away. [Archaic]

WAY
Way, n. Etym: [OE. wey, way, AS. weg; akin to OS., D., OHG., & G.
weg, Icel. vegr, Sw. väg, Dan. vei, Goth. wigs, L. via, and AS. wegan
to move, L. vehere to carry, Skr. vah. sq. root136. Cf. Convex,
Inveigh, Vehicle, Vex, Via, Voyage, Wag, Wagon, Wee, Weigh.]

1. That by, upon, or along, which one passes or processes;
opportunity or room to pass; place of passing; passage; road, street,
track, or path of any kind; as, they built a way to the mine. "To
find the way to heaven." Shak.
I shall him seek by way and eke by street. Chaucer.
The way seems difficult, and steep to scale. Milton.
The season and ways were very improper for his majesty's forces to
march so great a distance. Evelyn.

2. Length of space; distance; interval; as, a great way; a long way.
And whenever the way seemed long, Or his heart began to fail.
Longfellow.

3. A moving; passage; procession; journey.
I prythee, now, lead the way. Shak.

4. Course or direction of motion or process; tendency of action;
advance.
If that way be your walk, you have not far. Milton.
And let eternal justice take the way. Dryden.

5. The means by which anything is reached, or anything is
accomplished; scheme; device; plan.
My best way is to creep under his gaberdine. Shak.
By noble ways we conquest will prepare. Dryden.
What impious ways my wishes took! Prior.

6. Manner; method; mode; fashion; style; as, the way of expressing
one's ideas.

7. Regular course; habitual method of life or action; plan of
conduct; mode of dealing. "Having lost the way of nobleness." Sir. P.
Sidney.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. Prov.
iii. 17.
When men lived in a grander way. Longfellow.

8. Sphere or scope of observation. Jer. Taylor.
The public ministers that fell in my way. Sir W. Temple.

9. Determined course; resolved mode of action or conduct; as, to have
one's way.

10. (Naut.)
(a) Progress; as, a ship has way. (b) pl.

Defn: The timbers on which a ship is launched.

11. pl. (Mach.)

Defn: The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a
planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves.

12. (Law)

Defn: Right of way. See below. By the way, in passing; apropos;
aside; apart from, though connected with, the main object or subject
of discourse.
 -- By way of, for the purpose of; as being; in character of.
 -- Covert way. (Fort.) See Covered way, under Covered.
 -- In the family way. See under Family.
 -- In the way, so as to meet, fall in with, obstruct, hinder, etc.
 -- In the way with, traveling or going with; meeting or being with;
in the presence of.
 -- Milky way. (Astron.) See Galaxy, 1.
 -- No way, No ways. See Noway, Noways, in the Vocabulary.
 -- On the way, traveling or going; hence, in process; advancing
toward completion; as, on the way to this country; on the way to
success.
 -- Out of the way. See under Out.
 -- Right of way (Law), a right of private passage over another's
ground. It may arise either by grant or prescription. It may be
attached to a house, entry, gate, well, or city lot, as well as to a
country farm. Kent.
 -- To be under way, or To have way (Naut.), to be in motion, as when
a ship begins to move.
 -- To give way. See under Give.
 -- To go one's way, or To come one's way, to go or come; to depart
or come along. Shak.
 -- To go the way of all the earth, to die.
 -- To make one's way, to advance in life by one's personal efforts.
 -- To make way. See under Make, v. t.
 -- Ways and means. (a) Methods; resources; facilities. (b)
(Legislation) Means for raising money; resources for revenue.
 -- Way leave, permission to cross, or a right of way across, land;
also, rent paid for such right. [Eng] -- Way of the cross (Eccl.),
the course taken in visiting in rotation the stations of the cross.
See Station, n., 7 (c).
 -- Way of the rounds (Fort.), a space left for the passage of the
rounds between a rampart and the wall of a fortified town.
 -- Way pane, a pane for cartage in irrigated land. See Pane, n., 4.
[Prov. Eng.] -- Way passenger, a passenger taken up, or set down, at
some intermediate place between the principal stations on a line of
travel.
 -- Ways of God, his providential government, or his works.
 -- Way station, an intermediate station between principal stations
on a line of travel, especially on a railroad.
 -- Way train, a train which stops at the intermediate, or way,
stations; an accommodation train.
 -- Way warden, the surveyor of a road.

Syn.
 -- Street; highway; road.
 -- Way, Street, Highway, Road. Way is generic, denoting any line for
passage or conveyance; a highway is literally one raised for the sake
of dryness and convenience in traveling; a road is, strictly, a way
for horses and carriages; a street is, etymologically, a paved way,
as early made in towns and cities; and, hence, the word is
distinctively applied to roads or highways in compact settlements.
All keep the broad highway, and take delight With many rather for to
go astray. Spenser.
There is but one road by which to climb up. Addison.
When night Darkens the streets, then wander forth the sons Of Belial,
flown with insolence and wine. Milton.