

CASAL
Ca"sal, a. (Gram.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending.

CASCABEL
Cas"ca*bel, n. Etym: [Sp. cascabel a little bell, also (fr. the
shape), a knob at the breech end of a cannon.]

Defn: The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually a
knob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In old
writers it included all in rear of the base ring.

Note: [See Illust. of Cannon.]

CASCADE
Cas*cade", n. Etym: [F. cascade, fr. It. cascata, fr. cascare to
ball.]

Defn: A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; a
waterfall less than a cataract.
The silver brook . . . pours the white cascade. Longjellow.
Now murm'ring soft, now roaring in cascade. Cawper.

CASCADE
Cas*cade", v. i.

1. To fall in a cascade. Lowell.

2. To vomit. [Slang] Smollett.

CASCADE METHOD
Cas*cade" meth"od. (Physics)

Defn: A method of attaining successively lower temperatures by
utilizing the cooling effect of the expansion of one gas in
condensing another less easily liquefiable, and so on.

CASCADE SYSTEM
Cascade system. (Elec.)

Defn: A system or method of connecting and operating two induction
motors so that the primary circuit of one is connected to the
secondary circuit of the other, the primary circuit of the latter
being connected to the source of supply; also, a system of electric
traction in which motors so connected are employed. The cascade
system is also called tandem, or concatenated, system; the connection
a cascade, tandem, or concatenated, connection, or a concatenation;
and the control of the motors so obtained a tandem, or concatenation,
control. In the cascade system of traction the cascade connection is
used for starting and for low speeds up to half speed. For full speed
the short-circuited motor is cut loose from the other motor and is
either left idle or (commonly) connected direct to the line.

CASCALHO
Cas*cal"ho, n. Etym: [Pg., a chip of stone, gravel.]

Defn: A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in which
the Brazilian diamond is usually found.

CASCARA BUCKTHORN
Cas"ca*ra buck"thorn`. (Bot.)

Defn: The buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshiana) of the Pacific coast of the
United States, which yields cascara sagrada.

CASCARA SAGRADA
Cas"ca*ra sa*gra"da. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: Holy bark; the bark of the California buckthorn (Rhamnus
Purshianus), used as a mild cathartic or laxative.

CASCARILLA
Cas`ca*ril"la, n.Etym: [Sp., small thin bark, Peruvian bark, dim. of
cáscara bark.] (Bot.)

Defn: A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also,
its aromatic bark. Cascarilla bark (or Cascarila) (Med.), the bark of
Croton Eleutheria. It has an aromatic odor and a warm, spicy, bitter
taste, and when burnt emits a musky odor. It is used as a gentle
tonic, and sometimes, for the sake of its fragrance, mixed with
smoking tobacco, when it is said to occasion vertigo and
intoxication.

CASCARILLIN
Cas`ca*ril"lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil of
cascarilla.

CASCARON
Cas`ca*ron", n. [Sp. cascarón.]

Defn: Lit., an eggshell; hence, an eggshell filled with confetti to
be thrown during balls, carnivals, etc. [Western U. S.]

CASE
Case, n. Etym: [OF. casse, F. caisse (cf. It. cassa), fr. L. capsa
chest, box, case, fr. caper to take, hold See Capacious, and cf. 4th
Chase, Cash, Enchase, 3d Sash.]

1. A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case
for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule) of a
cartridge; a case (cover) for a book.

2. A box and its contents; the quantity contained in a box; as, a
case of goods; a case of instruments.

3. (Print.)

Defn: A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holding
type.

Note: Cases for type are usually arranged in sets of two, called
respectively the upper and the lower case. The upper case contains
capitals, small capitals, accented; the lower case contains the small
letters, figures, marks of punctuation, quadrats, and spaces.

4. An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a door case; a window case.

5. (Mining)

Defn: A small fissure which admits water to the workings. Knight.

CASE
Case, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cased; p. pr. & vb. n. Casing.]

1. To cover or protect with, or as with, a case; to inclose.
The man who, cased in steel, had passed whole days and nights in the
saddle. Prescott.

2. To strip the skin from; as, to case a box. [Obs.]

CASE
Case, n. Etym: [F. cas, fr. L. casus, fr. cadere to fall, to happen.
Cf. Chance.]

1. Chance; accident; hap; opportunity. [Obs.]
By aventure, or sort, or cas. Chaucer.

2. That which befalls, comes, or happens; an event; an instance; a
circumstance, or all the circumstamces; condition; state of things;
affair; as, a strange case; a case of injustice; the case of the
Indian tribes.
In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge. Deut. xxiv. 13.
If the case of the man be so with his wife. Matt. xix. 10.
And when a lady's in the case. You know all other things give place.
Gay.
You think this madness but a common case. Pope.
I am in case to justle a constable, Shak.

3. (Med. & Surg.)

Defn: A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury;
as, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury.
A proper remedy in hypochondriacal cases. Arbuthnot.

4. (Law)

Defn: The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as
distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a
cause.
Let us consider the reason of the case, for nothing is law that is
not reason. Sir John Powell.
Not one case in the reports of our courts. Steele.

5. (Gram.)

Defn: One of the forms, or the inflections or changes of form, of a
noun, pronoun, or adjective, which indicate its relation to other
words, and in the aggregate constitute its declension; the relation
which a noun or pronoun sustains to some other word.
Case is properly a falling off from the nominative or first state of
word; the name for which, however, is now, by extension of its
signification, applied also to the nominative. J. W. Gibbs.

Note: Cases other than the nominative are oblique cases. Case endings
are terminations by which certain cases are distinguished. In old
English, as in Latin, nouns had several cases distinguished by case
endings, but in modern English only that of the possessive case is
retained. Action on the case (Law), according to the old
classification (now obsolete), was an action for redress of wrongs or
injuries to person or property not specially provided against by law,
in which the whole cause of complaint was set out in the writ; --
called also trespass on the case, or simply case.
 -- All a case, a matter of indifference. [Obs.] "It is all a case to
me." L'Estrange.
 -- Case at bar. See under Bar, n.
 -- Case divinity, casuistry.
 -- Case lawyer, one versed in the reports of cases rather than in
the science of the law.
 -- Case stated or agreed on (Law), a statement in writing of facts
agreed on and submitted to the court for a decision of the legal
points arising on them.
 -- A hard case, an abandoned or incorrigible person. [Colloq.] -- In
any case, whatever may be the state of affairs; anyhow.
 -- In case, or In case that, if; supposing that; in the event or
contingency; if it should happen that. "In case we are surprised,
keep by me." W. Irving.
 -- In good case, in good condition, health, or state of body.
 -- To put a case, to suppose a hypothetical or illustrative case.

Syn.
 -- Situation, condition, state; circumstances; plight; predicament;
occurrence; contingency; accident; event; conjuncture; cause; action;
suit.

CASE
Case, v. i.

Defn: To propose hypothetical cases. [Obs.] "Casing upon the matter."
L'Estrange.

CASEATION
Ca`se*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caséation. See Casein.] (Med.)

Defn: A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.

CASE-BAY
Case"-bay`, n. (Arch.)
(a) The space between two principals or girders.
(b) One of the joists framed between a pair of girders in naked
flooring.

CASEHARDEN
Case"hard`en, v. t.

1. To subject to a process which converts the surface of iron into
steel.

2. To render insensible to good influences.

CASEHARDENED
Case"hard`ened, a.

1. Having the surface hardened, as iron tools.

2. Hardened against, or insusceptible to, good influences; rendered
callous by persistence in wrongdoing or resistance of good
influences; -- said of persons.

CASEHARDENING
Case"hard`en*ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of converting the surface of iron into
steel. Ure.

Note: Casehardening is now commonly effected by cementation with
charcoal or other carbonizing material, the depth and degree of
hardening (carbonization) depending on the time during which the iron
is exposed to the heat. See Cementation.

CASEIC
Ca"se*ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. caséique, fr. L. caseus cheese.]

Defn: OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid.

CASEIN
Ca"se*in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caséine, fr. L. caseur cheese. Cf.
Cheese.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A proteid substance present in both the animal and the
vegetable kingdom. In the animal kindom it is chiefly found in milk,
and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the
vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of
leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin.
[Written also caseine.]

CASE KNIFE
Case" knife`.

1. A knife carried in a sheath or case. Addison.

2. A large table knife; -- so called from being formerly kept in a
case.

CASEMATE
Case"mate, n. Etym: [F. casemate, fr. It. casamatta, prob. from casa
house + matto, f. matta, mad, weak, feeble, dim. from the same source
as E. -mate in checkmate.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may be
placed, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being used
as a magazine, or for quartering troops.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A hollow molding, chiefly in cornices.

CASEMATED
Case"ma`ted, a.

Defn: Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate.
Campbell.

CASEMENT
Case"ment, n. Etym: [Shortened fr. encasement. See Incase 1st Case,
and cf. Incasement.] (Arch.)

Defn: A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side of
the frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window.
A casement of the great chamber window. Shak.

CASEMENTED
Case"ment*ed, a.

Defn: Having a casement or casements.

CASEOSE
Ca"se*ose, n.  [Casein + -ose.] (Physiol.Chem.)

Defn: A soluble product (proteose) formed in the gastric and
pancreatic digestion of casein and caseinogen.

CASEOUS
Ca"se*ous, a. Etym: [L. caseus. Cf. Casein.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities
of cheese; cheesy. Caseous degeneration, a morbid process, in
scrofulous or consumptive persons, in which the products of
inflammation are converted into a cheesy substance which is neither
absorbed nor organized.

CASERN
Ca"sern, n. Etym: [F. caserne.]

Defn: A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the
rampart; barracks. Bescherelle.

CASE SHOT
Case" shot`. (Mil.)

Defn: A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case or
canister.

Note: In the United States a case shot is a thin spherical or oblong
cast-iron shell containing musket balls and a bursting charge, with a
time fuse; -- called in Europe shrapnel. In Europe the term case shot
is applied to what in the United States is called canister. Wilhelm.

CASE SYSTEM
Case system. (Law)

Defn: The system of teaching law in which the instruction is
primarily a historical and inductive study of leading or selected
cases, with or without the use of textbooks for reference and
collateral reading.

CASEUM
Ca"se*um, n. Etym: [L. caseus cheese.]

Defn: Same as Casein.

CASEWORM
Case"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice.

CASH
Cash, n. Etym: [F. caisse case, box, cash box, cash. See Case a box.]

Defn: A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid
out; a money box. [Obs.]
This bank is properly a general cash, where every man lodges his
money. Sir W. Temple.
£20,000 are known to be in her cash. Sir R. Winwood.

2. (Com.)
(a) Ready money; especially, coin or specie; but also applied to bank
notes, drafts, bonds, or any paper easily convertible into money.
(b) Immediate or prompt payment in current funds; as, to sell goods
for cash; to make a reduction in price for cash. Cash account
(Bookkeeping), an account of money received, disbursed, and on hand.
 -- Cash boy, in large retail stores, a messenger who carries the
money received by the salesman from customers to a cashier, and
returns the proper change. [Colloq.] -- Cash credit, an account with
a bank by which a person or house, having given security for
repayment, draws at pleasure upon the bank to the extent of an amount
agreed upon; -- called also bank credit and cash account.
 -- Cash sales, sales made for ready, money, in distinction from
those on which credit is given; stocks sold, to be delivered on the
day of transaction.

Syn.
 -- Money; coin; specie; currency; capital.

CASH
Cash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Casing.]

Defn: To pay, or to receive, cash for; to exchange for money; as,
cash a note or an order.

CASH
Cash, v. t. Etym: [See Cashier.]

Defn: To disband. [Obs.] Garges.

CASH
Cash, n.sing & pl.

Defn: A Chinese coin.

Note: The cash (Chinese tsien) is the only current coin made by the
chinese government. It is a thin circular disk of a very base alloy
of copper, with a square hole in the center. 1,000 to 1,400 cash are
equivalent to a dollar.

CASHBOOK
Cash"book, n. (Bookkeeping)

Defn: A book in which is kept a register of money received or paid
out.

CASHEW
Ca*shew", n. Etym: [F. acajou, for cajou, prob. from Malay kayu tree;
cf. Pg. acaju, cf. Acajou.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which the
sumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized in
all tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at the
extremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three inches
long. Casbew nut, the large, kidney-shaped fruit of the cashew, which
is edible after the caustic oil has been expelled from the shell by
roasting the nut.

CASHIER
Cash*ier", n. Etym: [F. caissier, fr. caisse. See Cash.]

Defn: One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who has
charge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of a
bank or a mercantile company.

CASHIER
Cash*ier", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cahiered; p. pr. &vb. n. Cashiering.]
Etym: [Earlier cash, fr. F. casser to break, annul, cashier, fr. L.
cassare, equiv. to cassum reddere, to annul; cf. G. cassiren. Cf.
Quash to annul, Cass.]

1. To dismiss or discard; to discharge; to dismiss with ignominy from
military service or from an office or place of frust.
They have cashiered several of their followers. Addison.
He had insolence to cashier the captain of the lord lieutenant's own
body guard. Macaulay.

2. To put away or reject; to disregard. [R.]
Connections formed for interest, and endeared
By selfish views, [are] censured and cashiered. Cowper.
They absolutely cashier the literal express sense of the words.
Sowth.

CASHIERER
Cash*ier"er, n.

Defn: One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer of
monarchs. [R.] Burke.

CASHIER'S CHECK
Cash*ier's" check. (Banking)

Defn: A check drawn by a bank upon its own funds, signed by the
cashier.

CASHMERE
Cash"mere, n.

1. A rich stuff for shawls, acaris, etc., originally made in Cashmere
from the soft wool found beneath the hair of the goats of Cashmere,
Thibet, and the Himalayas. Some cashmere, of fine quality, is richly
embroidered for sale to Europeans.

2. A dress fabric made of fine wool, or of fine wool and cotton, in
imitation of the original cashmere. Cashmere shawl, a rich and costly
shawl made of cashmere; -- other called camel's-hair shawl.

CASHMERETTE
Cash`me*rette", n.

Defn: A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface like
cashmere.

CASHOO
Ca*shoo", n. Etym: [F. cachou, NL. catechu, Cochin-Chin. cay cau from
the tree called mimosa, or areca catechu. Cf. Catechu.]

Defn: See Catechu.

CASH RAILWAY
Cash railway.

Defn: A form of cash carrier in which a small carrier or car travels
upon a kind of track.

CASH REGISTER
Cash register.

Defn: A device for recording the amount of cash received, usually
having an automatic adding machine and a money drawer and exhibiting
the amount of the sale.

CASING
Cas"ing, n.

1. The act or process of inclosing in, or covering with, a case or
thin substance, as plaster, boards, etc.

2. An outside covering, for protection or ornament, or to precent the
radiation of heat.

3. An inclosing frame; esp. the framework around a door or a window.
See Case, n., 4.

CASINGS
Ca"sings, n. pl.

Defn: Dried dung of cattle used as fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Waterland.

CASINO
Ca*si"no, n.; pl. E. Casinos, It. Casini. Etym: [It. casino, dim. of
casa house, fr. L. casa cottage. Cf. Cassing.]

1. A small country house.

2. A building or room used for meetings, or public amusements, for
dancing, gaming, etc.

3. A game at cards. See Cassino.

CASK
Cask, n. Etym: [Sp. casco potsherd, skull, helmet, prob. fr. cascar
to break, fr. L. Quassure to break. Cf. Casque, Cass.]

1. Same as Casque. [Obs.]

2. A barrel-shaped vessel made of staves headings, and hoops, usually
fitted together so as to hold liquids. It may be larger or smaller
than a barrel.

3. The quantity contained in a cask.

4. A casket; a small box for jewels. [Obs.] Shak.

CASK
Cask, v. t.

Defn: To put into a cask.

CASKET
Cas"ket, n. Etym: [Cf. F. casquet, dim. of casque belmet, fr. Sp.
casco.]

1. A small chest or box, esp. of rich material or ornamental
character, as for jewels, etc.
The little casket bring me hither. Shak.

2. A kind of burial case. [U. S.]

3. Anything containing or intended to contain something highly
esteemed; as: (a) The body. (Shak). (b) The tomb. (Milton). (c) A
book of selections. [poetic]
They found him dead . . . an empty casket. Shak.

CASKET
Cas"ket, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A gasket. See Gasket.

CASKET
Cas"ket, v. t.

Defn: To put into, or preserve in, a casket. [Poetic] "I have
casketed my treasure." Shak.

CASQUE
Casque, n. Etym: [F. casque, fr. Sp. casco See Cask.]

Defn: A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a
vizor) for the head and neck; a helmet.
His casque overshadowed with brilliant plumes. Prescott.

CASS
Cass, v. t. Etym: [F. casser, LL. cassare, fr. L. cassus empty,
hollow, and perhaps influenced by L. quassare to shake, shatter, v.
intens. of quatere to shake. Cf. Cashier, v. t., Quash, Cask.]

Defn: To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.
[Obs.] Sir W. Raleing.

CASSADA
Cas"sa*da, n.

Defn: See Cassava.

CASSAREEP
Cas"sa*reep, n.

Defn: A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihot
utilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated by
boiling, and flavored with aromatics. See Pepper pot.

CASSATE
Cas"sate, v. t. Etym: [LL. cassare. See Cass.]

Defn: To render void or useless; to vacate or annul. [Obs.]

CASSATION
Cas*sa"tion, n. Etym: [F. cassation. See Cass.]

Defn: The act of annulling.
A general cassation of their constitutions. Motley.
Court of cassation, the highest court of appeal in France, which has
power to quash (Casser) or reverse the decisions of the inferior
courts.

CASSAVA
Cas"sa*va, n. Etym: [F. cassave, Sp. cazabe, fr. kasabi, in the
language of Hayti.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, with
fleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.

Note: There are two species, bitter and sweet, from which the cassava
of commerce is prepared in the West Indies, tropical America, and
Africa. The bitter (Manihot utilissima) is the more important; this
has a poisonous sap, but by grating, pressing, and baking the root
the poisonous qualities are removed. The sweet (M. Aipi) is used as a
table vegetable.

2. A nutritious starch obtained from the rootstocks of the cassava
plant, used as food and in making tapioca.

CASSAVA WOOD
Cas"sa*va wood`. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian tree (Turpinia occidentalis) of the family
Staphyleaceæ.

CASSEL BROWN; CASSEL EARTH
Cas"sel brown, Cas"sel earth .

Defn: A brown pigment of varying permanence, consisting of impure
lignite. It was found originally near Cassel (now Kassel), Germany.

CASSE PAPER
Cas"se Pa"per. Etym: [F. papier cassé. See Cass.]

Defn: Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream.

CASSEROLE
Cas"se*role n. Etym: [F. a saucepan, dim. from casse a basin.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: A mold (in the shape of a hollow vessel or incasement) of
boiled rice, mashed potato or paste, baked, and afterwards filled
with vegetables or meat.

CASSE-TETE
Casse`-tête", n. [F., fr. casser to breal (see 2d Quash) + tête
head.]

Defn: A small war club, esp. of savages; -- so called because of its
supposed use in crushing the skull.

CASSETTE
Cas`sette", n. [F., prop., a casket, dim. of casse a case. See lst
Case.]

Defn: Same as Seggar.

CASSIA
Cas"sia, n. Etym: [L. cassia and casia, Gr. qetsi\'beh, fr. qatsa' to
cut off, to peel off.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of many
species, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves of
several species furnish the senna used in medicine.

2. The bark of several species of Cinnamommum grown in China, etc.;
Chinese cinnamon. It is imported as cassia, but commonly sold as
cinnamon, from which it differs more or less in strength and flavor,
and the amount of outer bark attached.

Note: The medicinal "cassia" (Cassia pulp) is the laxative pulp of
the pods of a leguminous tree (Cassia fistula or Pudding-pipe tree),
native in the East Indies but naturalized in various tropical
countries. Cassia bark, the bark of Cinnamomum Cassia, etc. The
coarser kinds are called Cassia lignea, and are often used to
adulterate true cinnamon.
 -- Cassia buds, the dried flower buds of several species of cinnamon
(Cinnamomum cassia, atc..).
 -- Cassia oil, oil extracted from cassia bark and cassia buds; --
called also oil of cinnamon.

CASSICAN
Cas"si*can, n. Etym: [NL. cassicus helmeted, fr. L. cassis a belmet.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlings
and orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspended
nest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to the
piping crow, an Australian bird.

CASSIDEOUS
Cas*sid"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. Cassis helmet.] (Bot.)

Defn: Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet-
shaped upper petal, as in aconite.

CASSIDONY
Cas"si*do*ny, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. cassidonium, F. Cassidoine. See
Chalcedony.] (Bot.)
(a) The French lavender (Lawandula Stachas).
(b) The goldilocks (Chrysocoma linosyris) and perhaps other plants
related to the genus Gnaphalium or cudweed.

CASSIMERE
Cas"si*mere, n. Etym: [Cf. F. casimir, prob. of the same origin as E.
cashmere. Cf. Kerseymere.]

Defn: A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.
[Written also kerseymere.]

CASSINETTE
Cas`si*nette", n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. casinete, G. cassinet.]

Defn: A cloth with a cotton wart, and a woof of very fine wool, or
wool and silk.

CASSINIAN OVALS
Cas*sin"i*an o"vals. (Math.)

Defn: See under Oval.

CASSINO
Cas*si"no, n. Etym: [It. casino a small house, a gaming house. See
asing.]

Defn: A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually for
twenty-one points. Great cassino, the ten of diamonds.
 -- Little cassino, the two of spades.

CASSIOBERRY
Cas"si*o*ber`ry, n. Etym: [NL. cassine, from the language of the
Florida Indians.]

Defn: The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows from
Virginia to Florida.

CASSIOPEIA
Cas`si*o*pe"ia, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated between
Capheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, a
fabuolous king of Ethiopia. Cassiopeia's Chair, a group of six stars,
in Cassiopeia, somewhat resembling a chair.

CASSITERITE
Cas*sit"er*ite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring in
tetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantine
luster; also massive, sometimes in compact forms with concentric
fibrous structure resembling wood (wood tin), also in rolled
fragments or pebbly (Stream tin). It is the chief source of metallic
tin. See Black tin, under Black.

CASSIUS
Cas"sius, n. Etym: [From the name of the discoverer, A. Cassius, a
German physician of the 17th centry.]

Defn: A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of some
compounds of tin upon certain salts of gold. It is used in painting
and staining porcelain and glass to give a beautiful purple color.
Commonly called Purple of Cassius.

CASSOCK
Cas"sock, n. Etym: [F. casaque, fr. It. casacca, perh. fr. L. casa
cottage, in It., house; or of Slavic origin.]

1. A long outer garment formerly worn by men and women, as well as by
soldiers as part of their uniform.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A garment resembling a long frock coat worn by the clergy of
certain churches when officiating, and by others as the usually outer
garment.

CASSOCKED
Cas"socked, a.

Defn: Clothed with a cassock.

CASSOLETTE
Cas`so*lette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: a box, or vase with a perforated cover to emit perfumes.

CASSONADE
Cas`son*ade", n. Etym: [F., fr. casson, for caisson a large chest.
This sugar comes from Brazil in large chests.]

Defn: Raw sugar; sugar not refined. Mc Elrath.

CASSOWARY
Cas"so*wa*ry, n.; pl. Cassowaries. Etym: [Malay kasuari.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies.
It is smaller and stouter than the ostrich. Its head is armed with a
kind of helmet of horny substance, consisting of plates overlapping
each other, and it has a group of long sharp spines on each wing
which are used as defensive organs. It is a shy bird, and runs with
great rapidity. Other species inhabit New Guinea, Australia, etc.

CASSUMUNAR; CASSUMUNIAR
Cas`su*mu"nar, Cas`su*mu"ni*ar, n. Etym: [Hind.] (Med.)

Defn: A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the
East Indies.

CAST
Cast, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cast; p. pr. & vb. n. Casting.] Etym: [Cf.
Dan. kastw, Icel. & Sw. kasta; perh. akin to L. gerer to bear, carry.
E. Jest.]

1. To send or drive by force; to throw; to fling; to hurl; to impel.
Uzziash prepared . . . slings to cast stones. 2 Chron. xxvi. 14
Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me. Acts. xii. 8
We must be cast upon a certain island. Acts. xxvii. 26.

2. To direct or turn, as the eyes.
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me! Shak.

3. To drop; to deposit; as, to cast a ballot.

4. To throw down, as in wrestling. Shak.

5. To throw up, as a mound, or rampart.
Thine enemies shall cast a trench [bank] about thee. Luke xix. 48.

6. To throw off; to eject; to shed; to lose.
His filth within being cast. Shak.
Neither shall your vine cast her fruit. Mal. iii. 11
The creatures that cast the skin are the snake, the viper, etc.
Bacon.

7. To bring forth prematurely; to slink.
Thy she-goats have not cast their young. Gen. xxi. 38.

8. To throw out or emit; to exhale. [Obs.]
This . . . casts a sulphureous smell. Woodward.

9. To cause to fall; to shed; to reflect; to throw; as, to cast a ray
upon a screen; to cast light upon a subject.

10. To impose; to bestow; to rest.
The government I cast upon my brother. Shak.
Cast thy burden upon the Lord. Ps. iv. 22.

11. To dismiss; to discard; to cashier. [Obs.]
The state can not with safety casthim.

12. To compute; to reckon; to calculate; as, to cast a horoscope.
"Let it be cast and paid." Shak.
You cast the event of war my noble lord. Shak.

13. To contrive; to plan. [Archaic]
The cloister . . . had, I doubt not, been cast for [an orange-
house]. Sir W. Temple.

14. To defeat in a lawsuit; to decide against; to convict; as, to be
cast in damages.
She was cast to be hanged. Jeffrey.
Were the case referred to any competent judge, they would inevitably
be cast. Dr. H. More.

15. To turn (the balance or scale); to overbalance; hence, to make
preponderate; to decide; as, a casting voice.
How much interest casts the balance in cases dubious! South.

16. To form into a particular shape, by pouring liquid metal or other
material into a mold; to fashion; to found; as, to cast bells,
stoves, bullets.

17. (Print.)

Defn: To stereotype or electrotype.

18. To fix, distribute, or allot, as the parts of a play among
actors; also to assign (an actor) for a part.
Our parts in the other world will be new cast. Addison.
To cast anchor (Naut.) Se under Anchor.
 -- To cast a horoscope, to calculate it.
 -- To cast a horse, sheep, or other animal, to throw with the feet
upwards, in such a manner as to prevent its rising again.
 -- To cast a shoe, to throw off or lose a shoe, said of a horse or
ox.
 -- To cast aside, to throw or push aside; to neglect; to reject as
useless or inconvenient.
 -- To cast away. (a) To throw away; to lavish; to waste. "Cast away
a life" Addison. (b) To reject; to let perish. "Cast away his
people." Rom. xi. 1. "Cast one away." Shak. (c) To wreck. "Cast away
and sunk." Shak.
 -- To cast by, to reject; to dismiss or discard; to throw away.
 -- To cast down, to throw down; to destroy; to deject or depress, as
the mind. "Why art thou cast down. O my soul" Ps. xiii. 5.
 -- To cast forth, to throw out, or eject, as from an inclosed place;
to emit; to send out.
 -- To cast in one's lot with, to share the fortunes of.
 -- To cast in one's teeth, to upbraid or abuse one for; to twin.
 -- To cast lots. See under Lot.
 -- To cast off. (a) To discard or reject; to drive away; to put off;
to free one's self from. (b) (Hunting) To leave behind, as dogs;
also, to set loose, or free, as dogs. Crabb. (c) (Naut.) To untie,
throw off, or let go, as a rope.
 -- To cast off copy, (Print.), to estimate how much printed matter a
given amount of copy will make, or how large the page must be in
order that the copy may make a given number of pages.
 -- To cast one's self on or upon to yield or submit one's self
unreservedly to. as to the mercy of another.
 -- To cast out, to throy out; to eject, as from a house; to cast
forth; to expel; to utter.
 -- To cast the lead (Naut.), to sound by dropping the lead to the
botton.
 -- To cast the water (Med.), to examine the urine for signs of
disease. [Obs.].
 -- To cast up. (a) To throw up; to raise. (b) To compute; to reckon,
as the cost. (c) To vomit. (d) To twit with; to throw in one's teeth.

CAST
Cast, v. i.

1. To throw, as a line in angling, esp, with a fly hook.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To turn the head of a vessel around from the wind in getting
under weigh.
Weigh anchor, cast to starboard. Totten.

3. To consider; to turn or revolve in the mind; to plan; as, to cast
about for reasons.
She . . . cast in her mind what manner of salution this should be.
Luke. i. 29.

4. To calculate; to compute. [R.]
Who would cast and balance at a desk. Tennyson.

5. To receive form or shape in a mold.
It will not run thin, so as to cast and mold. Woodward.

6. To warp; to become twisted out of shape.
Stuff is said to cast or warp when . . . it alters its flatness or
straightness. Moxon.

7. To vomit.
These verses . . . make me ready to cast. B. Jonson.

CAST
Cast,

Defn: 3d pres. of Cast, for Casteth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAST
Cast, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel., Dan., & Sw. kast.]

1. The act of casting or throwing; a throw.

2. The thing thrown.
A cast of dreadful dust. Dryden.

3. The distance to which a thing is or can be thrown. "About a
stone's cast." Luke xxii. 41.

4. A throw of dice; hence, a chance or venture.
An even cast whether the army should march this way or that way.
Sowth.
I have set my life upon a cast, And I will stand the hazard of the
die. Shak.

5. That which is throw out or off, shed, or ejected; as, the skin of
an insect, the refuse from a hawk's stomach, the excrement of a
earthworm.

6. The act of casting in a mold.
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon. Shak.

7. An impression or mold, taken from a thing or person; amold; a
pattern.

8. That which is formed in a mild; esp. a reproduction or copy, as of
a work of art, in bronze or plaster, etc.; a casting.

9. Form; appearence; mien; air; style; as, a pecullar cast of
countenance. "A neat cast of verse." Pope.
An heroic poem, but in another cast and figure. Prior.
And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale
cast of thought. Shak.

10. A tendency to any color; a tinge; a shade.
Gray with a cast of green. Woodward.

11. A chance, opportunity, privilege, or advantage; specifically, an
opportunity of riding; a lift. [Scotch]
We bargained with the driver to give us a cast to the next stage.
Smollett.
If we had the cast o' a cart to bring it. Sir W. Scott.

12. The assignment of parts in a play to the actors.

13. (Falconary)

Defn: A flight or a couple or set of hawks let go at one time from
the hand. Grabb.
As when a cast of falcons make their flight. Spenser.

14. A stoke, touch, or trick. [Obs.]
This was a cast of Wood's politics; for his information was wholly
false. Swift.

15. A motion or turn, as of the eye; direction; look; glance; squint.
The cast of the eye is a gesture of aversion. Bacon.
And let you see with one cast of an eye. Addison.
This freakish, elvish cast came into the child's eye. Hawthorne.

16. A tube or funnel for conveying metal into a mold.

17. Four; that is, as many as are thrown into a vessel at once in
counting herrings, etc; a warp.

18. Contrivance; plot, design. [Obs.] Chaucer. A cast of the eye, a
slight squint or strabismus.
 -- Renal cast (Med.), microscopic bodies found in the urine of
persons affected with disease of the kidneys; -- so called because
they are formed of matter deposited in, and preserving the outline
of, the renal tubes.
 -- The last cast, the last throw of the dice or last effort, on
which every thing is ventured; the last chance.

CASTALIAN
Cas*ta"li*an, a. Etym: [L. Castalius]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain of
inspiration on Mt. Parnassus sacred to the Muses. Milton.

CASTANEA
Cas*ta"ne*a, n. Etym: [L., a chestnut, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnut
and chinquapin.

CASTANET
Cas"ta*net, n.

Defn: See Castanets.

CASTANETS
Cas"ta*nets, n. pl. Etym: [F. castagnettes, Sp. castañetas, fr. L.
castanea (Sp. castaña) a chestnut. So named from the resemblance to
two chestnuts, or because chestnuts were first used for castanets.
See Chestnut.]

Defn: Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped like
spoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middle
finger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment to
their dance and guitars.

Note: The singular, castanet, is used of one of the pair, or,
sometimes, of the pair forming the instrument.
The dancer, holding a castanet in each hand, rattles then to the
motion of his feet. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

CASTAWAY
Cast"a*way, n.

1. One who, or that which, is cast away or shipwrecked.

2. One who is ruined; one who has made moral shipwreck; a reprobate.
Lest . . . when I have preached to others, I myself should be a
castaway. 1 Cor. ix. 27.

CASTAWAY
Cast"a*way, a.

Defn: Of no value; rejected; useless.

CASTE
Caste, n. Etym: [Pg. casta race, lineage, fr. L. castus pure, chaste:
cf. F. caste, of same origin.]

1. One of the hereditary classes into which the Hindoos are divided
according to the laws of Brahmanism.

Note: The members of the same caste are theoretically of equal rank,
and same profession or occupation, and may not eat or intermarry with
those not of their own caste. The original are four, viz., the
Brahmans, or sacerdotal order; the Kshatriyas, or soldiers and
rulers; the Vaisyas, or husbandmen and merchants; and the Sudras, or
laborers and mechanics. Men of no caste are Pariahs, outcasts.
Numerous mixed classes, or castes, have sprung up in the progress of
time.

2. A separate and fixed order or class of persons in society who
chiefly hold intercourse among themselves.
The tinkers then formed an hereditary caste. Macaulay.
To lose caste, to be degraded from the caste to which one has
belonged; to lose social position or consideration.

CASTELLAN
Cas"tel*lan, n. Etym: [OF. castelain, F. châtelain, L. castellanus
pertaining to a castle, an occupant of a caste, LL., a governor of a
castle, fr. L. catellum castle, citadel, dim. of castrum fortifled
place. See Castle, and cf. Chatelaine.]

Defn: A goveror or warden of a castle.

CASTELLANY
Cas"tel*la*ny, n.; pl. Castellanies. Etym: [LL. castellania.]

Defn: The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdiction
appertaining to a castle.

CASTELLATED
Cas"tel*la`ted, a. Etym: [LL. castellatus, fr. castellare. See
Castle.]

1. Inclosed within a building; as, a fountain or cistern castellated.
[Obs.] Johnson.

2. Furnished with turrets and battlements, like a castle; built in
the style of a castle.

CASTELLATION
Cas`tel*la"tion, n. Etym: [LL. castellation, fr. castellare, fr. L.
castellum. See Castle.]

Defn: The act of making into a castle.

CASTER
Cast"er, n.

1. One who casts; as, caster of stones, etc. ; a caster of cannon; a
caster of accounts.

2. A vial, cruet, or other small vessel, used to contain condiments
at the table; as, a set of casters.

3. A stand to hold a set of cruets.

4. A small wheel on a swivel, on which furniture is supported and
moved.

CASTIGATE
Cas"ti*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Castigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Castigating.] Etym: [L. castigatus, p. p. of castigare to correct,
punish; castus pure, chaste + agere to move, drive. See Caste, and
cf. Chasten.]

1. To punish by stripes; to chastise by blows; to chasten; also, to
chastise verbally; to reprove; to criticise severely.

2. To emend; to correct. [Obs.]

CASTIGATION
Cas`ti*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. catigatio.]

1. Corrective punishment; chastisement; reproof; pungent criticism.
The keenest castigation of her slanderers. W. Irving.

2. Emendation; correction. [Obs.]

CASTIGATOR
Cas`ti*ga"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who castigates or corrects.

CASTIGATORY
Cas`ti*ga*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. castigatorius.]

Defn: Punitive in order to amendment; corrective.

CASTIGATORY
Cas"ti*ga*to*ry, n.

Defn: An instrument formerly used to punish and correct arrant
scolds; -- called also a ducking stool, or trebucket. Blacktone.

CASTILE SOAP
Cas"tile soap". Etym: [From Castile, or Castilia, a province in
Spain, from which it originally came.]

Defn: A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with olive
and soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap.

CASTILIAN
Cas*til"ian, n. Etym: [Sp. castellano, from Castila, NL. Castilia,
Castella. Castile, which received its name from the castles erected
on the frontiers as a barrier against the Moors.]

1. An inhabitant or native of Castile, in Spain.

2. The Spanish language as spoken in Castile.

CASTILLAN
Cas*til"lan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain.

CASTING
Cast"ing, n.

1. The act of one who casts or throws, as in fishing.

2. The act or process of making cast or impressions, or of shaping
metal or plaster in a mold; the act or the process of pouring molten
metal into a mold.

3. That which is cast in a mold; esp. the mass of metal so cast; as,
a casting in iron; bronze casting.

4. The warping of a board. Brande & C.

5. The act of casting off, or that which is cast off, as skin,
feathers, excrement, etc. Casting of draperies, the proper
distribution of the folds of garments, in painting and sculpture.
 -- Casting line (Fishing), the leader; also, sometimes applied to
the long reel line. Casting net, a net which is cast and drawn, in
distinction from a net that is set and left.
 -- Casting voice, Casting vote, the decisive vote of a presiding
officer, when the votes of the assembly or house are equally divided.
"When there was an equal vote, the governor had the casting voice."
B. Trumbull.
 -- Casting weight, a weight that turns a balance when exactly
poised.

CAST IRON
Cast" i`ron.

Defn: Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blast
furnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wrought
iron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, and
sometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus,
silica, etc.

CAST-IRON
Cast"-i`ron, a.

Defn: Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy;
unyielding.

CASTLE
Cas"tle, n. Etym: [AS. castel, fr. L. castellum, dim. of castrum a
fortified place, castle.]

1. A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a
fortress.
The house of every one is to him castle and fortress, as well for his
defense againts injury and violence, as for his repose. Coke.
Our castle's strength Will laugh a siege to scorn. Shak.

Note: Originally the mediæval castle was a single strong tower or
keep, with a palisaded inclosure around it and inferior buidings,
such as stables and the like, and surrounded by a moat; then such a
keep or donjon, with courtyards or baileys and accessory buildings of
greater elaboration a great hall and a chapel, all surrounded by
defensive walls and a moat, with a drawbridge, etc. Afterwards the
name was retained by large dwellings that had formerly been
fortresses, or by those which replaced ancient fortresses. A Donjon
or Keep, an irregular building containing the dwelling of the lord
and his family; B C Large round towers ferming part of the donjon and
of the exterior; D Square tower, separating the two inner courts and
forming part of the donjon; E Chapel, whose apse forms a half-round
tower, F, on the exterior walls; G H Round towers on the exterior
walls; K Postern gate, reached from outside by a removable fight of
steps or inclined plane for hoisting in stores, and leading to a
court, L (see small digagram) whose pavement is on a level with the
sill of the postern, but below the level of the larger court, with
which it communicates by a separately fortified gateway; M Turret,
containing spiral stairway to all the stories of the great tower, B,
and serving also as a station for signal fire, banner, etc.; N Turret
with stairway for tower, C; O Echauguettes; P P P Battlemants
consisting of merlons and crenels alternately, the merlons being
pierced by loopholes; Q Q Machicolations (those at Q defend the
postern K); R Outwork defending the approach, which is a road
ascending the hill and passing under all four faces of the castle; S
S Wall of the outer bailey. The road of approach enters the bailey at
T and passes thence into the castle by the main entrance gateway
(which is in the wall between, and defended by the towers, C H) and
over two drawbridges and through fortified passages to the inner
court.

2. Any strong, imposing, and stately mansion.

3. A small tower, as on a ship, or an elephant's back.

4. A piece, made to represent a castle, used in the game of chess; a
rook. Castle in the air, a visionary project; a baseless scheme; an
air castle; -- sometimes called a castle in Spain (F. Château en
Espagne).

Syn.
 -- Fortress; fortification; citadel; stronghold. See Fortress.

CASTLE
Cas"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Castled (. p. pr. & vb. n. Castling.]
(Chess)

Defn: To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the
king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose
of covering the king.

CASTLEBUILDER
Cas"tle*build`er, n.

Defn: Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionary
schemes.
 -- Cas"tle*build`ing, n.

CASTLED
Cas"tled, a.

Defn: Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castled
height or crag.

2. Fortified; turreted; as, castled walls.

CASTLE-GUARD
Cas"tle-guard`, n.

1. The guard or defense of a castle.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance of
a castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it;
castle-ward.

3. A feudal tenure, obliging the tenant to perform service within the
realm, without limitation of time.

CASTLERY
Cas"tle*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. castelerie. See Castle.]

Defn: The government of a castle. Blount.

CASTLET
Cas"tlet, n.

Defn: A small castle. Leland.

CASTLEWARD
Cas"tle*ward`, n.

Defn: Same as Castleguard.

CASTLING
Cast"ling, n.

Defn: That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
Sir T. Browne.

CASTLING
Cas"tling, n. (Chess)

Defn: A compound move of the king and castle. See Castle, v. i.

CAST-OFF
Cast"-off`, a.

Defn: Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes.

CASTOR
Cas"tor, n. Etym: [L. castor the beaver, Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.

2. Castoreum. See Castoreum.

3. A hat, esp. one made of beaver fur; a beaver.
I have always been known for the jaunty manner in which I wear my
castor. Sir W. Scott.

4. A heavy quality of broadcloth for overcoats.

CASTOR
Cast"or, n.

Defn: See Caster, a small wheel.

CASTOR
Cas"tor, n. Etym: [L.] (Astron.)

Defn: the northernmost of the two bright stars in the constellation
Gemini, the other being Pollux.

CASTOR; CASTORITE
Cas"tor, Cas"tor*ite, n. Etym: [The minerals castor and pollux were
so named because found together on the island of Elba. See Castor and
Pollux.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of the mineral called petalite, from Elba.

CASTOR AND POLLUX
Cas"tor and Pol"lux. Etym: [Castor and Pollux were twin sons of
Jupiter and Leda.] (Naut.)

Defn: See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint.

CASTOR BEAN
Cas"tor bean". (Bot.)

Defn: The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or
Palma Christi.)

CASTOREUM
Cas*to"re*um, n. Etym: [L. See Castor.]

Defn: A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong,
penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and external
genitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as an
antispasmodic, and by perfumers.

CASTORIN
Cas"to*rin, n. Etym: [From 1st Castor.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.

CASTOR OIL
Cas"tor oil.

Defn: A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds of
the Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil is
inodorus and insipid. Castor-oil plant. Same as Palma Christi.

CASTRAMETATION
Cas`tra*me*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. castramétation, fr. L. castra camp +
metari to measure off, fr. meta limit.] (Mil.)

Defn: The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of a
camp.

CASTRATE
Cas"trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Castrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Castrating.] Etym: [L. castrarus, p; p. of castrare to castrate, asin
to Skr. çastra knife.]

1. To deprive of the testicles; to emasculate; to geld; to alter.

2. To cut or take out; esp. to remove anything erroneous, or
objectionable from, as the obscene parts of a writing; to expurgate.
My . . . correspondent . . . has sent me the following letter, which
I have castrated in some places. Spectator.

CASTRATION
Cas*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. castratio; cf. F. castration.]

Defn: The act of castrating.

CASTRATO
Cas*tra"to, n. Etym: [L., properly p. p. of castrare. See Castrate.]

Defn: A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voice
for singing; an artificial, or male, soprano. Swift.

CASTREL
Cas"trel, n. Etym: [Cf. F. crécerelle, cristel, OF. crecel, cercele.
Cf. Kestrel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Kestrel.

CASTRENSIAL
Cas*tren"sial, a. Etym: [L. castrensis, fr. castra camp.]

Defn: Belonging to a camp. Sir T. Browne.

CASTRENSIAN
Cas*tren"sian, a.

Defn: Castrensial. [R.]

CAST STEEL
Cast" steel".

Defn: See Cast steel, under Steel.

CASUAL
Cas"u*al, a. Etym: [OE. casuel, F. casuel, fr. L. casualis, fr. casus
fall, accident, fr. cadere to fall. See Case.]

1. Happening or coming to pass without design, and without being
foreseen or expected; accidental; fortuitous; coming by chance.
Casual breaks, in the general system. W. Irving.

2. Coming without regularity; occasional; incidental; as, casual
expenses.
A constant habit, rather than a casual gesture. Hawthorne.

Syn.
 -- Accidental; fortutious; incidental; occasional; contingent;
unforeseen. See Accidental.

CASUAL
Cas"u*al, n.

Defn: One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which he
does not belong; a vagrant.

CASUALISM
Cas"u*al*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance.

CASUALIST
Cas"u*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in casualism.

CASUALLY
Cas"u*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance;
occasionally.

CASUALNESS
Cas"u*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being casual.

CASUALTY
Cas"u*al*ty, n.; pl. Casualties. Etym: [F. casualité, LL.
casualitas.]

1. That which comes without design or without being foreseen;
contingency.
Losses that befall them by mere casualty. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Any injury of the body from accident; hence, death, or other
misfortune, occasioned by an accident; as, an unhappy casualty.

3. pl. (Mil. & Naval)

Defn: Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, or
desertion. Casualty ward, A ward in a hospital devoted to the
treatment of injuries received by accident.

Syn.
 -- Accident; contingency; fortuity; misfortune.

CASUARINA
Cas`u*a*ri"na, n. Etym: [NL., supposed to be named from the
resemblance of the twigs to the feathers of the cassowary, of the
genus Casuarius.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leafles trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets of
a rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them are
large, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, called
beefwood from its color.

CASUIST
Cas"u*ist, n. Etym: [L. casus fall, case; cf. F. casuiste. See
Casual.]

Defn: One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry.
The judment of any casuist or learned divine concerning the state of
a man's soul, is not sufficient to give him confidence. South.

CASUIST
Cas"u*ist, v. i.

Defn: To play the casuist. Milton.

CASUISTIC; CASUISTICAL
Cas`u*is"tic, Cas`u*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to casuists or casuistry.

CASUISTRY
Cas"u*ist*ry, a.

1. The science or doctrine of dealing with cases of conscience, of
resolving questions of right or wrong in conduct, or determining the
lawfulness or unlawfulness of what a man may do by rules and
principles drawn from the Scriptures, from the laws of society or the
church, or from equity and natural reason; the application of general
moral rules to particular cases.
The consideration of these nice and puzzling question in the science
of ethics has given rise, in modern times, to a particular department
of it, distinguished by the title of casuistry. Stewart.
Casuistry in the science of cases (i.e., oblique deflections from the
general rule). De Quincey.

2. Sophistical, equivocal, or false reasoning or teaching in regard
to duties, obligations, and morals.

CASUS
Ca"sus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of
circumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident.
Casus belli, an event or combination of events which is a cause war,
or may be alleged as a justification of war.
 -- Casus fortuitus, an accident against which due prudence could not
have provided. See Act of God, under Act.
 -- Casus omissus, a case not provided for by the statute.

CAT
Cat, n. Etym: [AS. cat; akin to D. & Dan. kat, Sw. kett, Icel. köttr,
G. katze, kater, Ir. Cat, W. cath, Armor. kaz, LL. catus, Bisc.
catua, NGr cot, Turk. kedi, Ar. qitt; of unknown origin. CF. Ketten.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. The
domestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus)
is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the name
wild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wild
cat, and Tiger cat.

Note: The domestic cat includes many varieties named from their place
of origin or from some peculiarity; as, the Angora cat; the Maltese
cat; the Manx cat.

Note: The word cat is also used to designate other animals, from some
fancied resemblance; as, civet cat, fisher cat, catbird, catfish
shark, sea cat.

2. (Naut.)
(a) A strong vessel with a narrow stern, projecting quarters, and
deep waist. It is employed in the coal and timber trade.
(b) A strong tackle used to draw an anchor up to the cathead of a
ship. Totten.

3. A double tripod (for holding a plate, etc.), having six feet, of
which three rest on the ground, in whatever position in is placed.

4. An old game; (a) The game of tipcat and the implement with which
it is played. See Tipcat. (c) A game of ball, called, according to
the number of batters, one old cat, two old cat, etc.

5. A cat o' nine tails. See below. Angora cat, blind cat, See under
Angora, Blind.
 -- Black cat the fisher. See under Black.
 -- Cat and dog, like a cat and dog; quarrelsome; inharmonius. "I am
sure we have lived a cat and dog life of it." Coleridge.
 -- Cat block (Naut.), a heavy iron-strapped block with a large hook,
part of the tackle used in drawing an anchor up to the cathead.
 -- Cat hook (Naut.), a strong hook attached to a cat block.
 -- Cat nap, a very short sleep. [Colloq.] -- Cat o' nine tails, an
instrument of punishment consisting of nine pieces of knotted line or
cord fastened to a handle; -- formerly used to flog offenders on the
bare back.
 -- Cat's cradle, game played, esp. by children, with a string looped
on the fingers so, as to resemble small cradle. The string is
transferred from the fingers of one to those of another, at each
transfer with a change of form. See Cratch, Cratch cradle.
 -- To let the cat out of the bag, to tell a secret, carelessly or
willfully. [Colloq.] -- Bush cat, the serval. See Serval.

CAT
Cat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. tted; p. pr. & vb. n. Catting.] (Naut.)

Defn: To bring to the cathead; as, to cat an anchor. See Anchor.
Totten.

CATA
Cat"a. Etym: [Gr. kata`.]

Defn: The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a
prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed
to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes drops
the final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath,
as in cathartic, catholic.

CATABAPTIST
Cat`a*bap"tist, n. Etym: [Pref. cata + aptist. See Baptist.] (Eccl.)

Defn: One who opposes baptism, especially of infants. [Obs.] Featley.

CATABASION
Cat`a*ba"sion, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A vault under altar of a Greek church.

CATABIOTIC
Cat`a*bi*ot"ic, a.

Defn: Aee under Force.

CATACAUSTIC
Cat`a*caus"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. cata + caustic.] (Physics)

Defn: Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curve
formed by reflection. See Caustic, a. Nichol.

CATACAUSTIC
Cat`a*caus"tic, n. (Physics)

Defn: A caustic curve formed by reflection of light. Nichol.

CATACHRESIS
Cat`a*chre"sis, n. Etym: [L. fr. Gr. (Rhel.)

Defn: A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or by
which a word is wrested from its true signification; as, "To take
arms against a sea of troubles. " Shak. "Her voice was but the shadow
of a sound." Young.

CATACHRESTIC; CATACHRESTICAL
Cat`a*chres"tic, Cat"a*chres"tic*al, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or in the manner of, a catachresis; wrested from
its natural sense or form; forced; far-fatched.
 -- Cat`a*chres"tic*al*ly, adv.
[A] catachrestical and improper way of speaking. Jer. Taylor.

CATACLASM
Cat"a*clasm, n. [Gr. ;  down +  to break.]

Defn: A breaking asunder; disruption.

CATACLYSM
Cat"a*clysm, n. Etym: [L. cataclysmos, Gr. cataclysme.]

1. An extensive overflow or sweeping flood of water; a deluge.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Any violent catastrophe, involving sudden and extensive changes
of the earth's surface.

CATACLYSMAL; CATACLYSMIC
Cat`a*clys"mal, Cat"a*clys"mic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cataclysm.

CATACLYSMIST
Cat`a*clys"mist, n.

Defn: One who believes that the most important geological phenomena
have been produced by cataclysms.

CATACOMB
Cat"a*comb, n. Etym: [It. catacomba, fr. L. catacumba perh. from Gr.

Defn: A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used for
the burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.

Note: The terms is supposed to have been applied originally to the
tombs under the church of St. Sebastain in Rome. The most celebrated
catacombs are those near Rome, on the Appian Way, supposed to have
been the place or refuge and interment of the early Chrictians; those
of Egypt, extending for a wide distance in the vicinity of Cairo; and
those of Paris, in abandoned stone quarries, excavated under a large
portion of the city.

CATACOUSTIC
Cat`a*cous"tic, n. Etym: [Pref. cata _ acoustics: cf. F.
caraconstique.] (Physics)

Defn: That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds or
echoes See Acoustics. Hutton.

CATACROTIC
Cat`a*crot"ic, a.  [Cata- + Gr.  a beating.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Designating, pertaining to, or characterized by, that form of
pulse tracing, or sphygmogram, in which the descending portion of the
curve is marked by secondary elevations due to two or more expansions
of the artery in the same beat. -- Ca*tac"rotism (#), n.

CATADICROTISM
Cat`a*di"cro*tism, n.  [Cata-+ dicrotism.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Quality or state of being catacrotic. -- Cat`a*di*crot"ic (#),
a.

CATADIOPTRIC; CATADIOPTRICAL
Cat`a*di*op"tric, Cat`a*di*op"tric*al, a. Etym: [Pref. cata +
dioptric: cf. F. catadioptrique.] (Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to, produced by, or involving, both the reflection
and refraction of light; as, a catadioptric light. Hutton.

CATADIOPTRICS
Cat`a*di*op"trics, n.

Defn: The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of the
used of catadioptric instruments.

CATADROME
Cat"a*drome, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A race course.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights.

CATADROMOUS
Ca*tad"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachis
than the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching in
ferns, and opposed to anadromous.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Living in fresh water, and going to the sea to spawn; --
opposed to anadromous, and of the eel.

CATAFALCO
Cat`a*fal"co, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: See Catafalque.

CATAFALQUE
Cat"a*falque`, n. Etym: [F., fr. It. catafalco, scaffold, funeral
canopy; of uncertain origin; cf. Sp. catafalso, cadahalso, cadalso,
Pr. casafalc, OF. chafaut. Cf. Scaffold.]

Defn: A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnities
of eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, or
their conveyance to the place of burial.

CATAGMATIC
Cat`*ag*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. catagmatique.] (Med.)

Defn: Having the quality of consolidating broken bones.

CATAIAN
Ca*ta"ian, n.

Defn: A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term of
reproach. Shak.

CATALAN
Cat"a*lan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Catalonia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inbabitant of Catalonia; also, the language of
Catalonia. Catalan furnace, Catalan forge (Metal.), a kind of furnace
for producing wrought iron directly from the ore. It was formerly
much used, esp. in Catalonia, and is still used in some parts of the
United States and elsewhere.

CATALECTIC
Cat`a*lec"tic, a. Etym: [L. catalecticus, Gr.

1. (Pros.)

Defn: Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfect
foot; as, a catalectic verse.

2. (Photog. & Chem.)

Defn: Incomplete; partial; not affecting the whole of a substance.
Abney.

CATALEPSY; CATALEPSIS
Cat"a*lep`sy, Cat`a*lep"sis, n. Etym: [NL. catalepsis, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A sudden suspension of sensation and volition, the body and
limbs preserving the position that may be given them, while the
action of the heart and lungs continues.

CATALEPTIC
Cat`a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected with
catalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit.

CATALLACTA
Cat`al*lac"ta, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Catallactics.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphæra is the type. They
exist both in a myxopod state, with branched pseudopodia, and in the
form of ciliated bodies united in free, spherical colonies.

CATALLACTICS
Cat`al*lac"tics n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.

CATALOG
Cat"a*log, n. & v.

Defn: Catalogue.

CATALOGIZE
Cat"a*lo*gize, v. t.

Defn: To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue. [R.]
Coles.

CATALOGUE
Cat"a*logue, n. Etym: [F., fr. catalogus, fr. Gr.

Defn: A list or enumeration of names, or articles arranged
methodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of the
students of a college, or of books, or of the stars. Card catalogue,
a catalogue, as of books, having each item entered on a separate
card, and the cards arranged in cases by subjects, or authors, or
alphabetically.
 -- Catalogue raisonné Etym: [F.], a catalogue of books, etc.,
classed according to their subjects. Syn.
 -- List; roll; index; schedule; enumeration; inventory. See List.

CATALOGUE
Cat"a*logue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catalogued; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cataloguing.]

Defn: To make a list or catalogue; to insert in a catalogue.

CATALOGUER
Cat"a*log`uer, n.

Defn: A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making of
catalogues.

CATALPA
Ca*tal"pa, n. Etym: [From the language of the Indians of Carolina,
where Catesby discovered this tree in the year 1726.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the best
know species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental North
American tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods,
and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indian
bean.

CATALYSIS
Ca*tal"y*sis, n.; pl. Catalyse. Etym: [ML., fr. Gr.

1. Dissolution; degeneration; decay. [R.]
Sad catalysis and declension of piety. Evelyn.

2. (Chem.)
(a) A process by which reaction occurs in the presence of certain
agents which were formerly believed to exert an influence by mere
contact. It is now believed that such reactions are attended with the
formation of an intermediate compound or compounds, so that by
alternate composition and decomposition the agent is apparenty left
unchanged; as, the catalysis of making ether from alcohol by means of
sulphuric acid; or catalysis in the action of soluble ferments (as
diastase, or ptyalin) on starch.
(b) The catalytic force.

CATALYTIC
Cat`a*ly"tic, a.

Defn: Relating to, or causing, catalysis. "The catalytic power is ill
understood." Ure. Catalytic force, that form of chemical energy
formerly supposed to determine catalysis.

CATALYTIC
Cat`a*lyt"ic, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An agent employed in catalysis, as platinum black, aluminium
chloride, etc.

CATAMARAN
Cat`a*ma*ran", n. Etym: [The native East Indian name.]

1. A kind of raft or float, consisting of two or more logs or pieces
of wood lashed together, and moved by paddles or sail; -- used as a
surf boat and for other purposes on the coasts of the East and West
Indies and South America. Modified forms are much used in the lumber
regions of North America, and at life-saving stations.

2. Any vessel with twin hulls, whether propelled by sails or by
steam; esp., one of a class of double-hulled pleasure boats
remarkable for speed.

3. A kind of fire raft or torpedo bat.
The incendiary rafts prepared by Sir Sidney Smith for destroying the
French flotilla at Boulogne, 1804, were called catamarans. Knight.

4. A quarrelsome woman; a scold. [Colloq.]

CATAMENIA
Cat`a*me"nia, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses.

CATAMENIAL
Cat`a*me"ni*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges.

CATAMITE
Cat"a*mite, n. Etym: [L. Catamitus, an old form of Ganymedes
Ganymede, Gr.

Defn: A boy kept for unnatural purposes.

CATAMOUNT
Cat"a*mount, n. Etym: [Cat + mount; cf. Sp. gato mentes mountain
cat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cougar. Applied also, in some parts of the United States,
to the lynx.

CATANADROMOUS
Cat"a*nad`ro*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, as
the salmon; anadromous. [R.]

CATAPASM
Cat"a*pasm, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkle
on ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc. Dunglison.

CATAPELTIC
Cat`a*pel"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a catapult.

CATAPETALOUS
Cat`a*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. cata + petalous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to their
bases, as in the mallow.

CATAPHONIC
Cat`a*phon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic.

CATAPHONICS
Cat`a*phon"ics, n. Etym: [Pref. cata + phonic: cf. F. cataphonique.]
(Physics)

Defn: That branch of acoustics which treats of reflested sounds;
catacoustics.

CATAPHRACT
Cat"a*phract, n. Etym: [L. cataphractes, Gr.

1. (Mil. Antiq.)

Defn: Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for the
horse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some eastern
nations.

2. A horseman covered with a cataphract.
Archers and slingers, cataphracts, and spears. Milton.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The armor or plate covering some fishes.

CATAPHRACTED
Cat"a*phract`ed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; or
with that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard,
callous skin, etc.

CATAPHRACTIC
Cat`a*phrac"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract.

CATAPHYSICAL
Cat`a*phys"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. cata + physical.]

Defn: Unnatural; contrary to nature. [R.]
Some artists . . . have given to Sir Walter Scott a pile of forehead
which is unpleassing and cataphysical. De Quincey.

CATAPLASM
Cat"a*plasm, n. Etym: [L. cataplasma, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part of
the body; a poultice. Dunglison.

CATAPLEXY
Cat"a*plex`y, n. [Gr.  amazement: cf. Apoplexy.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition caused by an overwhelming shock or extreme
fear and marked by rigidity of the muscles. -- Cat`a*plec"tic (#), a.

CATAPUCE
Cat"a*puce, n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)

Defn: Spurge. [Obs.]

CATAPULT
Cat"a*pult, n. Etym: [L. catapulta, Gr.

1. (Mil. Antiq.)

Defn: An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by the
ancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.

2. A forked stick with elasti band for throwing small stones, etc.

CATARACT
Cat"a*ract, n. Etym: [L. cataracta, catarracles, a waterfall, Gr.

1. A great fall of water over a precipice; a large waterfall.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: An opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, which
prevents the passage of the rays of light and impairs or destroys the
sight.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A kind of hydraulic brake for regulating the action of pumping
engines and other machines; -- sometimes called dashpot.

CATARACTOUS
Cat`a*rac"tous, a.

Defn: Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract.

CATARRH
Ca*tarrh", n. Etym: [L. catarrhus, Gr. Stream.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in which
there are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity and
quality of mucus secreted; as catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of the
bladder.

Note: In America, the term catarrh is applied especially to a chronic
inflammation of, and hypersecretion fron, the membranes of the nose
or air passages; in England, to an acute influenza, resulting a cold,
and attended with cough, thirst, lassitude, and watery eyes; also, to
the cold itself.

CATARRHAL
Ca*tarrh"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of the
nature of catarrh.

CATARRHINE
Cat"ar*rhine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including the
Old World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together and
turned downward. See Monkey.

CATARRHOUS
Ca*tarrh"ous, a.

Defn: Catarrhal. [R.]

CATASTALTIC
Cat`a*stal"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Checking evacutions through astringent or styptic qualities.

CATASTASIS
Ca*tas"ta*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which the
orator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The state, or condition of anything; constitution; habit of
body.

CATASTERISM
Ca*tas"ter*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars.
The catasterisms of Eratosthenes. Whewell.

CATASTROPHE
Ca*tas"tro*phe, n. Etym: [L. catastropha, Gr.

1. An event producing a subversion of the order or system of things;
a final event, usually of a calamitous or disastrous nature; hence,
sudden calamity; great misfortune.
The strange catastrophe of affairs now at London. Bp. Buret.
The most horrible and portentous catastrophe that nature ever yet
saw. Woodward.

2. The final event in a romance or a dramatic piece; a denouement, as
a death in a tragedy, or a marriage in a comedy.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: A violent and widely extended change in the surface of the
earth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected by
internal causes. Whewell.

CATASTROPHIC
Cat`a*stroph"ic, a.

Defn: Of a pertaining to a catastrophe. B. Powell.

CATASTROPHISM
Ca*tas"tro*phism, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crust
have been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; --
opposed to the doctrine of uniformism.

CATASTROPHIST
Ca*tas"tro*phist, n. (Geol.)

Defn: One who holds the theory or catastrophism.

CATAWBA
Ca*taw"ba, n.

1. A well known light red variety of American grape.

2. A light-colored, sprightly American wine from the Catawba grape.

CATAWBAS
Ca*taw"bas, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Catawba. (Ethnol.) An appalachian tribe of Indians
which originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and the
head waters of the Santee.

CATBIRD
Cat"bird, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to the
mocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of other
birds, but less perfectly. Its note resembles at times the mewing of
a cat.

CATBOAT
Cat"boat`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward as
possible, carring a sail extended by a graff and long boom. See
Illustration in Appendix.

CATCALL
Cat"call`, n.

Defn: A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to
express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument
for making such a noise.
Upon the rising of the curtain. I was very much surprised with the
great consort of catcalls which was exhibited. Addison.

CATCH
Catch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caught or Catched (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catching. Catched is rarely used.] Etym: [OE. cacchen, OF. cachier,
dialectic form of chacier to hunt, F. chasser, fr. (assumend) LL.
captiare, for L. capture, V. intens. of capere to take, catch. See
Capacious, and cf. Chase, Case a box.]

1. To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp
(anything) in motion, with the effect of holding; as, to catch a
ball.

2. To seize after pursuing; to arrest; as, to catch a thief. "They
pursued . . . and caught him." Judg. i. 6.

3. To take captive, as in a snare or net, or on a hook; as, to catch
a bird or fish.

4. Hence: To insnare; to entangle. "To catch him in his words". Mark
xii. 13.

5. To seize with the senses or the mind; to apprehend; as, to catch a
melody. "Fiery thoughts . . . whereof I catch the issue." Tennyson.

6. To communicate to; to fasten upon; as, the fire caught the
adjoining building.

7. To engage and attach; to please; to charm.
The soothing arts that catch the fair. Dryden.

8. To get possession of; to attain.
Torment myself to catch the English throne. Shak.

9. To take or receive; esp. to take by sympathy, contagion,
infection, or exposure; as, to catch the spirit of an occasion; to
catch the measles or smallpox; to catch cold; the house caught fire.

10. To come upon unexpectedly or by surprise; to find; as, to catch
one in the act of stealing.

11. To reach in time; to come up with; as, to catch a train. To catch
fire, to become inflamed or ignited.
 -- to catch it to get a scolding or beating; to suffer punishment.
[Colloq.] -- To catch one's eye, to interrupt captiously while
speaking. [Colloq.] "You catch me up so very short." Dickens.
 -- To catch up, to snatch; to take up suddenly.

CATCH
Catch, v. i.

1. To attain possession. [Obs.]
Have is have, however men do catch. Shak.

2. To be held or impeded by entanglement or a light obstruction; as,
a kite catches in a tree; a door catches so as not to open.

3. To take hold; as, the bolt does not catch.

4. To spread by, or as by, infecting; to communicate.
Does the sedition catch from man to man Addison.
To catch at, to attempt to seize; to be egger to get or use. "[To]
catch at all opportunities of subverting the state." Addison.
 -- To catch up with, to come up with; to overtake.

CATCH
Catch, n.

1. Act of seizing; a grasp. Sir P. Sidney.

2. That by which anything is caught or temporarily fastened; as, the
catch of a gate.

3. The posture of seizing; a state of preparation to lay hold of, or
of watching he opportunity to seize; as, to lie on the catch.
[Archaic] Addison.
The common and the canon law . . . lie at catch, and wait advantages
one againt another. T. Fuller.

4. That which is caught or taken; profit; gain; especially, the whole
quantity caught or taken at one time; as, a good catch of fish.
Hector shall have a great catch if he knock out either of your
brains. Shak.

5. Something desirable to be caught, esp. a husband or wife in
matrimony. [Colloq.] Marryat.

6. pl.

Defn: Passing opportunities seized; snatches.
It has been writ by catches with many intervals. Locke.

7. A slight remembrance; a trace.
We retain a catch of those pretty stories. Glanvill.

8. (Mus.)

Defn: A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch
up each other's words.

CATCHABLE
Catch"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being caught. [R.]

CATCH-BASIN
Catch"-ba`sin, n.

Defn: A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutter
discharges into a sewer, to oatch bulky matters which would not pass
readly throught the sewer. Knight.

CATCH CROP
Catch crop.

Defn: Any crop grown between the rows of another crop or intermediate
between two crops in ordinary rotation in point of time. -- Catch"-
crop`ping, n.

Radishes . . . are often grown as a catch crop with other vegetables.
L. H. Bailey.

CATCHDRAIN
Catch"drain`, n.

Defn: A dich or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surface
water; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surplus
water.

CATCHER
Catch"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, catches.

2. (Baseball)

Defn: The player who stands behind the batsman to catch the ball.

CATCHFLY
Catch"fly, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts,
covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere. The
species of Silene are examples of the catchfly.

CATCHING
Catch"ing a.

1. Infections; contagious.

2. Captavating; alluring.

CATCHING
Catch"ing, n.

Defn: The act of seizing or taking hold of Catching bargain (Law), a
bargain made with an heir expectant for the purchase of his
expectancy at an inadequate price. Bouvier.

CATCH-MEADOW
Catch"-mead`ow, n.

Defn: meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the side
of hill.

CATCHMENT
Catch"ment, n.

Defn: A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collected
into a reservoir.

CATCHPENNY
Catch"pen*ny, a.

Defn: Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from the
ignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show.
 -- n.

Defn: Some worthless catchpenny thing.

CATCHPOLL
Catch"poll`, n. Etym: [OF. chacepol, chacipol.]

Defn: A bailiff's assistant.

CATCH TITLE
Catch title.

Defn: A short expressive title used for abbreviated book lists, etc.

CATCHUP; CATSUP
Catch"up, Cat"sup, n. Etym: [Probably of East Indian origin, because
it was originally a kind of East Indian pickles.]

Defn: A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc.
[Written also ketchup.]

CATCHWATER
Catch"wa`ter, n.

Defn: A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain.

CATCHWEED
Catch"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cleavers.

CATCHWEIGHT
Catch"weight`, adv. (Horseracing)

Defn: Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as,
to ride catchweight.

CATCHWORD
Catch"word`, n.

1. Among theatrical performers, the last word of the preceding
speaker, which reminds one that he is to speak next; cue.

2. (Print.)

Defn: The first word of any page of a book after the first, inserted
at the right hand bottom corner of the preceding page for the
assistance of the reader. It is seldom used in modern printing.

3. A word or phrase caught up and repeated for effect; as, the
catchword of a political party, etc.

CATCHWORK
Catch"work`, n.

Defn: A work or artificial watercourse for throwing water on lands
that lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain.

CATCHY
Catch"y, a.

1. Apt or tending to catch the fancy or attention; catching; taking;
as, catchy music.

2.  Tending to catch or insnare; entangling; -- usually used fig.;
as, a catchy question.

3.  Consisting of, or occuring in, disconnected parts or snatches;
changeable; as, a catchy wind.

It [the fox's scent] is . . . flighty or catchy, if variable.
Encyc. of Sport.

CATE
Cate, n.

Defn: Food. [Obs.] See Cates.

CATECHETIC; CATECHETICAL
Cat`e*chet"ic, Cat`e*chet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Catechise.]

Defn: Relating to or consisting in, asking questions and receiving
answers, according to the ancient manner of teaching.
Socrates introduced a catechetical method of arguing. Addison.

CATECHETICALLY
Cat`e*chet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a catechetical manner; by question and answer.

CATECHETICS
Cat`e*chet"ics, n.

Defn: The science or practice of instructing by questions and
answers.

CATECHIN
Cat"e*chin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white,
crystaline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.

CATECHISATION
Cat`e*chi*sa"tion, n. Etym: [LL. catechizatio.]

Defn: The act of catechising.

CATECHISE
Cat"e*chise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catechised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catechising.] Etym: [L. catechizare, Gr.

1. To instruct by asking questions, receiving answeres, and offering
explanations and corrections, -- esp. in regard to points of
religious faith.

2. To question or interrogate; to examine or try by questions; --
sometimes with a view to reproof, by eliciting from a person answers
which condemn his own conduct. Swift.

CATECHISER
Cat"e*chi`ser, n.

Defn: One who catechises.

CATECHISM
Cat"e*chism, n. Etym: [L. catechismus, fr. Gr. See Catechise.]

1. A form of instruction by means of questions answers.

2. A book containing a summary of principles, especially of religious
doctrine, reduced to the form of questions and answers.
The Jews, even till this day, have their catechisms. Hooker.
The Larger Catechism, The Shorter Catechism. See Westminster
Assembly, under Assembly.

CATECHISMAL
Cat`e*chis"mal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questions
and answers; catechical.

CATECHIST
Cat"e*chist, n. Etym: [L. catechista, fr. Gr.]

Defn: One who instructs by question and answer, especially in
religions matters.

CATECHISTIC; CATECHISTICAL
Cat`e*chis"tic, Cat`e*chis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a catechist or to a catechism. Dr. H. More.

CATECHIZE
Cat"e*chize, v. t.

Defn: See Catechise.

CATECHU
Cat"e*chu, n. Etym: [See Cashoo.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction and
evaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growing
in India. It contains a large portion of tannin or tannic acid, and
is used in medicine and in the arts. It is also known by the names
terra japonica, cutch, gambier, etc. Ure. Dunglison.

CATECHUIC
Cat`e*chu"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin.

CATECHUMEN
Cat"e*chu`men, n. Etym: [L. catechunenus, Gr. Catechise.] (Eccl.)

Defn: One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrines
of Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officially
recognized as a Christian, and admitted to instruction preliminary to
admission to full membership in the church.

CATECHUMENATE
Cat`e*chu"men*ate, n.

Defn: The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during which
one is a catechumen.

CATECHUMENICAL
Cat`e*chu*men"i*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenical
instructions.

CATECHUMENIST
Cat`e*chu"men*ist, n.

Defn: A catechumen. Bp. Morton.

CATEGOREMATIC
Cat`e*gor`e*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Category.] (Logic.)

Defn: Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of a
word.

CATEGORICAL
Cat`e*gor"ic*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a category.

2. Not hypothetical or relative; admitting no conditions or
exceptions; declarative; absolute; positive; express; as, a
categorical proposition, or answer.
The scriptures by a multitude of categorical and intelligible
decisions . . . distinguish between the things seen and temporal and
those that are unseen and eternal. I. Taylor.

CATEGORICALLY
Cat`e*gor"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirm
categorically.

CATEGORICALNESS
Cat`e*gor"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute. A.
Marvell.

CATEGORIST
Cat"e*go*rist, n.

Defn: One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies.
Emerson.

CATEGORIZE
Cat"e*go*rize, v. t.

Defn: To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue.

CATEGORY
Cat"e*go*ry, n.; pl. Categories Etym: [L. categoria, Gr.

1. (Logic.)

Defn: One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge or
thought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in a
system; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament.
The categories or predicaments -- the former a Greek word, the latter
its literal translation in the Latin language -- were intended by
Aristotle and his followers as an enumeration of all things capable
of being named; an enumeration by the summa genera i.e., the most
extensive classes into which things could be distributed. J. S. Mill.

2. Class; also, state, condition, or predicament; as, we are both in
the same category.
There is in modern literature a whole class of writers standing
within the same category. De Quincey.

CATEL
Cat"el, n. Etym: [See Chattel.]

Defn: Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or
income.
"For loss of catel may recovered be, But loss of tyme shendeth us,"
quod he. Chaucer.

CATELECTRODE
Cat`e*lec"trode, n. Etym: [Pref. cata + elecrode.] (Physics)

Defn: The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery. Faraday.

CATELECTROTONIC
Cat`e*lec`tro*ton"ic, a. (Physics)

Defn: Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus.

CATELECTROTONUS
Cat`e*lec*trot"o*nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Electro-) + (Physics)

Defn: The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in the
region of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of a
current of electricity through it.

CATENA
Ca*te"na, n.; pl. Catene. Etym: [L., a chain.]

Defn: A chain or series of things connected with each other.
I have . . . in no case sought to construct those catenæ of games,
which it seems now the fashion of commentators to link together. C.
J. Ellicott.

CATENARY; CATENARIAN
Cat"e*na*ry, Cat`e*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. catenarius, fr. catena a
chain. See Chain.]

Defn: Relating to a chain; like a chain; as, a catenary curve.

CATENARY
Cat"e*na*ry, n.; pl. Catenaries (. (Geol.)

Defn: The curve formed by a rope or chain of uniform density and
perfect flexibility, hanging freely between two points of suspension,
not in the same vertical line.

CATENATE
Cat"e*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catenated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catenating.] Etym: [L. catenatus, p. p. of catenare, fr. catena
chain. See Chain.]

Defn: To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain. E. Darwin.

CATENATION
Cat`e*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. catenatio.]

Defn: Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regular
or connected series. See Concatenation. Sir T. Browne.

CATENULATE
Ca*ten"u*late, a. Etym: [L. catenuia, dim. of catena chain.]

1. Consisting of little links or chains.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Chainlike; -- said both or color marks and of indentations when
arranged like the links of a chain, as on shells, etc.

CATER
Ca"ter, n. Etym: [OE. catour purchaser, caterer, OF. acator, fr.
acater, F. acheter, to buy, provide, fr. LL. accaptare; L. ad +
captare to strive, to seize, intens, of capere to take, seize. Cf.
Acater, Capacious.]

Defn: A provider; a purveyor; a caterer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CATER
Ca"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Catered; p. pr. & vb. n. Catering.] Etym:
[From Cater, n.]

1. To provide food; to buy, procure, or prepare provisions.
[He] providently caters for the sparrow. Shak.

2. By extension: To supply what is needed or desired, at theatrical
or musical entertainments; -- followed by for or to.

CATER
Ca"ter, n. Etym: [F. quatre four.]

Defn: The four of cards or dice.

CATER
Ca"ter, v. t.

Defn: To cut diagonally. [Obs.] Halliwell.

CATERAN
Cat"e*ran, n. Etym: [Gael. ceatharnach. Cf. Kern Irish foot soldier.]

Defn: A Highland robber: a kind of irregular soldier. [Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

CATER-CORNERED
Ca"ter-cor"nered, a. Etym: [Cf. Cater to cut diagonally.]

Defn: Diagonal. [Colloq.]

CATER-COUSIN
Ca"ter-cous`in, n.

Defn: A remote relation. See Quater-cousin. Shak.

CATERER
Ca"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who caters.
The little fowls in the air have God for Their provider and caterer.
Shelton.

CATERESS
Ca"ter*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who caters. Milton.

CATERPILLAR
Cat"er*pil`lar, n. Etym: [OE. catyrpel, corrupted fr. OF.
chatepelouse, or cate pelue, fr. chate, F. chatte, she-cat, fem. of
chat, L. catus + L. pilosus hairy, or F. pelu hairy, fr. L. pilus
hair. See Cat, and Pile hair.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect;
sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, as
the sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars. The true
caterpillars have three pairs of true legs, and several pairs of
abdominal fleshy legs (prolegs) armed with hooks. Some are hairy,
others naked. They usually feed on leaves, fruit, and succulent
vegetables, being often very destructive, Many of them are popularly
called worms, as the cutworm, cankerworm, army worm, cotton worm,
silkworm.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Scorpiurus, with pods resembling
caterpillars. Caterpillar catcher, or Caterpillar eater (Zoöl.), a
bird belonging to the family of Shrikes, which feeds on caterpillars.
The name is also given to several other birds.
 -- Caterpillar hunter (Zoöl.), any species of beetles of the genus
Callosoma and other allied genera of the family Carabidæ which feed
habitually upon caterpillars.

CATERWAUL
Cat"er*waul, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caterwauled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Caterwauling.] Etym: [Cat + waul, wawl, to cry as a cat.]

Defn: To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensive
noise. Coleridge.

CATERWAUL
Cat"er*waul, n.

Defn: A caterwauling.

CATERWAULING
Cat"er*waul`ing, n.

Defn: The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like the
cry of cats. Shak.

CATERY
Ca"ter*y, n. Etym: [See Cater, n.]

Defn: The place where provisions are deposited. [Obs.]

CATES
Cates, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Acates, and see Cater, n.]

Defn: Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food;
delicacies; dainties. Shak.
Cates for which Apicius could not pay. Shurchill.
Choicest cates and the fiagon's best spilth. R. Browning.

CAT-EYED
Cat"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark.

CATFALL
Cat"fall`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead. Totten.

CATFISH
Cat"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given in the United States to various species of
siluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat
(Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stone
cat (Noturus flavus); the sea cat (Arius felis), etc. This name is
also sometimes applied to the wolf fish. See Bullhrad.

CATGUT
Cat"gut`, n. Etym: [Cat + gut.]

1. A cord of great toughness made from the intestines of animals,
esp. of sheep, used for strings of musical instruments, etc.

2. A sort of linen or canvas, with wide interstices.

CATHARINE WHEEL
Cath"a*rine wheel`.

Defn: See catherine wheel.

CATHARIST
Cath"a*rist, n. Etym: [LL. catharista, fr. Gr.

Defn: One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like than
others about him; -- applied to persons of various sects. See
Albigenses.

CAT-HARPIN
Cat"-harp`in, n.

Defn: See Cat-harping.

CAT-HARPING
Cat"-harp`ing n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in the
shrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.

CATHARSIS
Ca*thar"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cathartic.] (Med.)

Defn: A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of the
mouth, bowels, etc.

CATHARTIC; CATHARICAL
Ca*thar"tic, Ca*thar"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. chaste.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool;
purgative.

2. Of or pertaining to the purgative principle of senna, as cathartic
acid.

CATHARTIC
Ca*thar"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that promotes alvine discharges; a purge; a
purgative of moderate activity.

Note: The cathartics are more energetic and certain in action that
the laxatives, which simply increase the tendency to alvine
evacuation; and less powerful and irritaint that the drastic purges,
which cause profuse, repeated, and watery evacuations.
 -- Ca*thar"tic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*thar"tic*al*ness, n.

CATHARTIN
ca*thar"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter, purgative principle of senna. It is a glucoside
with the properties of a weak acid; -- called also cathartic acid,
and cathartina.

CATHAY
Ca*thay", n.

Defn: China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been
introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name
for North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.)
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson.

CATHEAD
Cat"head`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, to
which the anchor is hoisted and secured.

CATHEDRA
Cath"e*dra, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Chair.]

Defn: The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person in
high authority. Ex cathedra Etym: [L., from the chair], in the
exercise of one's office; with authority.
The Vatican Council declares that the Pope, is infallible "when he
speaks ex cathedra." Addis & Arnold's Cath. Dict.

CATHEDRAL
Ca*the"dral, n. Etym: [LL. cathedralis (sc. ecclesia): cf. F.
cathédrale. See Cathedra.]

Defn: The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it the
bishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne.

CATHEDRAL
Ca*the"dral, a. Etym: [LL. cathedralis: cf. F. cathédral.]

1. Pertaining to the head church of a diocese; as, a cathedral
church; cathedral service.

2. Emanating from the chair of office, as of a pope or bishop;
official; authoritative.
Now, what solemnity can be more required for the pope to make a
cathedral determination of an article! Jer. Taylor.

3. Resembling the aisles of a cathedral; as, cathedral walks. Pope.

CATHEDRALIC
Cath`e*dral"ic, a.

Defn: Cathedral. [R.]

CATHEDRATED
Cath`e*dra"ted, a. Etym: [From Cathedra.]

Defn: Relating to the chair or office of a teacher. [Obs.]

CATHERETIC
Cath`e*ret"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and other
excrescences. Dunglison.

CATHERINE WHEEL
Cath"er*ine wheel`. Etym: [So called from St. Catherine of
Alexandria, who is represented with a wheel, in allusion to her
martyrdom.]

1. (Geoth.Arth.)

Defn: Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine-
wheel window.

2. (Pyrotechny)

Defn: A revolving piece of fireworks resembling in form the window of
the same name. [Written also Catharine wheel.]

CATHETER
Cath"e*ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The name of various instruments for passing along mucous
canals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced into
the bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine. Eustachian
catheter. See under Eustachian.
 -- Prostatic catheter, one adapted for passing an enlarged prostate.

CATHETERISM; CATHETERIZATION
Cath"e*ter*ism, Cath`e*ter*i*za"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: The operation of introducing a catheter.

CATHETERIZE
Cath"e*ter*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catheterized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catheterizing.] (Med.)

Defn: To operate on with a catheter. Dunglison.

CATHETOMETER
Cath`e*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [From Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differences
of height; esp. of the differences in the height of the upper
surfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the same
column at different times. It consists of a telescopic leveling
apparatus (d), which slides up or down a perpendicular metallic
standard very finely graduated (bb). The telescope is raised or
depressed in order to sight the objects or surfaces, and the
differences in vertical height are thus shown on the graduated
standard. [Written also kathetometer.]

CATHETUS
Cath"e*tus, n.; pl. catheti. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Catheter.] (Geom.)

Defn: One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, the
catheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides that
include the right angle. Barlow.

CATHODE
Cath"ode, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric current
leaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at which
the electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negative
pole; -- opposed to anode. Faraday. Cathode ray (Phys.), a kind of
ray generated at the cathode in a vacuum tube, by the electrical
discharge.

CATHODIC
Ca*thod"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent course of the
nervous infuence. Marshall Hall.

CATHODOGRAPH; CATHODEGRAPH
Ca*thod"o*graph, n. Also Ca*thod"e*graph. [Cathode + -graph.]
(Physics)

Defn: A picture produced by the Röntgen rays; a radiograph.

CAT-HOLE
Cat"-hole`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, through
which hawsers may be passed.

CATHOLIC
Cath"o*lic, a. Etym: [L. catholicus, Gr. solid: cf. F. catholique.]

1. Universal or general; as, the catholic faith.
Men of other countries [came] to bear their part in so great and
catholic a war. Southey.

Note: This epithet, which is applicable to the whole Christian
church, or its faith, is claimed by Roman Catholics to belong
especially to their church, and in popular usage is so limited.

2. Not narrow-minded, partial, or bigoted; liberal; as, catholic
tastes.

3. Of or pertaining to, or affecting the Roman Catholics; as, the
Catholic emancipation act. Catholic epistles, the espistles of the
apostles which are addressed to all the faithful, and not to a
particular church; being those of James, Peter, Jude, and John.

CATHOLIC
Cath"o*lic, n.

1. A person who accepts the creeds which are received in common by
all parts of the orthodox Christian church.

2. An adherent of the Roman Catholic church; a Roman Catholic. Old
Catholic, the name assumed in 1870 by members of the Roman Catholic
church, who denied the ecumenical character of the Vatican Council,
and Rejected its decrees, esp. that concerning the infallibility of
the pope, as contrary to the ancient Catholic faith.

CATHOLICAL
Ca*thol"i*cal, a.

Defn: Catholic. [Obs.]

CATHOLICISM
Ca*thol"i*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. catholicisme.]

1. The state or quality of being catholic or universal; catholicity.
Jer. Taylor.

2. Liberality of sentiment; breadth of view.

3. The faith of the whole orthodox Christian church, or adherence
thereto.

4. The doctrines or faith of the Roman Catholic church, or adherence
thereto.

CATHOLICITY
Cath`o*lic"i*ty, n.

1. The state or quality of being catholic; universality.

2. Liberality of sentiments; catholicism.

3. Adherence or conformity to the system of doctrine held by all
parts of the orthodox Christian church; the doctrine so held;
orthodoxy.

4. Adherence to the doctrines of the church of Rome, or the doctrines
themselves.

CATHOLICIZE
Ca*thol"i*cize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic.

CATHOLICLY
Cath"o*lic*ly, adv.

Defn: In a catholic manner; generally; universally. Sir L. Cary.

CATHOLICNESS
Cath"o*lic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity.

CATHOLICON
Ca*thol"i*con, n. Etym: [Gr. Catholic.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy for all diseases; a panacea.

CATHOLICOS
Ca*thol"i*cos, n. Etym: [NL. See Catholic.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides at
Etchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, and
consecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, and
Persia, including the Patriarchs of Constantinople, Jerusalem, and
Sis.

Note: The Patriarch of Constantinople is the civil head of the
Armenians in Turkey.